T H € H € R O € S 



Of OLYMPUS 




Xhe 

[ost Hero 



RICK RIORDAN 



• Hyperion Books 



New York 





Copyright© 2010 by Rick Riordan All rights reserved. Published by Disney Hyperion Books, an imprint of Disney Book Group. No part of this book 
may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information 
storage and retrieval system, without written permission from the publisher. For information address Disney • Hyperion Books, 114 Fifth Avenue, New 
York, New York 10011 -5690. 

First Edition 
13579 108642 
V567-9638-5-1 0213 
Printed in the United States of America 

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data on file. 

ISBN 978-1-4231-4540-0 

Visit www.hvperionbooksforchildren.com 



Table of Contents 



• Happy Reading 

• Also By Rick Riordan 

• I Jason 

• li Jason 

• lii Piper 

• Iv Piper 

• V Leo 

• Vi Leo 

• Vii Jason 

• Viii Jason 

• lx Piper 

• X Piper 

• Xi Leo 

• Xii Leo 

• Xiii Jason 

• Xiv Jason 

• Xv Piper 

• Xvi Piper 

• Xvii Leo 

• Xviii Leo 

• Xix Jason 

• Xx Jason 

• Xxi Piper 

• Xxii Piper 

• Xxiii Leo 

• Xxiv Leo 

• Xxv Jason 

• Xxvi Jason 

• Xxvii Piper 

• Xxviii Piper 

• Xxix Leo 

• Xxx Leo 

• Xxxi Jason 

• Xxxii Jason 

• Xxxiii Piper 

• Xxxiv Piper 

• XxxvLeo 

• Xxxvi Leo 

• Xxxvii Jason 

• Xxxviii Jason 

• Xxxix Piper 

• XI Piper 

• Xli Leo 

• Xlii Leo 

• Xliii Jason 

• Xliv Jason 

• Xiv Piper 

• Xlvi Piper 

• Xlvii Leo 

• Xlviii Leo 

• Xlix Jason 

• L Jason 

• Li Piper 

• Lii Piper 

• Liii Leo 

• Liv Leo 

• Lv Jason 

• Lvi Jason 

• Gods In The Lost Hero 

• Coming Fall 2011 

• Praise For The Percy Jackson Series By Rick Riordan: 

• Praise For The Kane Chronicles Book 1 :The Red Pyramid By Rick Riordan: 

• About The Author 



For Haley and Patrick, always the first to hear stories Without them, Camp Half-Blood would not exist. 




T H ( H € R O € S 



Of OLYMPUS 




The 

Jost Hehp 

Happy reading on your Kindle 




RICK RIORDAN 






Hyperion Books 



New York 





Also by Rick Riordan 



Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book One: 
The Lightning Thief 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Two: 
The Sea of Monsters 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Three 
The Titan’s Curse 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Four: 
The Battle of the Labyrinth 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Five: 
The Last Olympian 

The Kane Chronicles, Book One: 

The Red Pyramid 




I 



JASON 

Even before he got electrocuted, Jason was having a rotten day. 

He woke in the backseat of a school bus, not sure where he was, holding hands with a girl he didn’t know. That wasn’t necessarily the rotten part. The 
girl was cute, but he couldn’t figure out who she was or what he was doing there. He sat up and rubbed his eyes, trying to think. 

A few dozen kids sprawled in the seats in front of him, listening to iPods, talking, or sleeping. They all looked around his age ... fifteen? Sixteen? 
Okay, that was scary. He didn’t know his own age. 

The bus rumbled along a bumpy road. Out the windows, desert rolled by under a bright blue sky. Jason was pretty sure he didn’t live in the desert. He 
tried to think back ... the last thing he remembered ... 

The girl squeezed his hand. “Jason, you okay?” 

She wore faded jeans, hiking boots, and a fleece snowboarding jacket. Her chocolate brown hair was cut choppy and uneven, with thin strands 
braided down the sides. She wore no makeup like she was trying not to draw attention to herself, but it didn’t work. She was seriously pretty. Her eyes 
seemed to change color like a kaleidoscope — brown, blue, and green. 

Jason let go of her hand. “Urn, I don't — ” 

In the front of the bus, a teacher shouted, “All right, cupcakes, listen up!” 

The guy was obviously a coach. His baseball cap was pulled low over his hair, so you could just see his beady eyes. He had a wispy goatee and a 
sour face, like he’d eaten something moldy. His buff arms and chest pushed against a bright orange polo shirt. His nylon workout pants and Nikes were 
spotless white. A whistle hung from his neck, and a megaphone was clipped to his belt. He would’ve looked pretty scary if he hadn’t been five feet zero. 
When he stood up in the aisle, one of the students called, “Stand up, Coach Hedge!” 

“I heard that!” The coach scanned the bus for the offender. Then his eyes fixed on Jason, and his scowl deepened. 

A jolt went down Jason’s spine. He was sure the coach knew he didn’t belong there. He was going to call Jason out, demand to know what he was 
doing on the bus — and Jason wouldn’t have a clue what to say. 

But Coach Hedge looked away and cleared his throat. “We’ll arrive in five minutes! Stay with your partner. Don’t lose your worksheet. And if any of 
you precious little cupcakes causes any trouble on this trip, I will personally send you back to campus the hard way.” 

He picked up a baseball bat and made like he was hitting a homer. 

Jason looked at the girl next to him. “Can he talk to us that way?” 

She shrugged. “Always does. This is the Wilderness School. ‘Where kids are the animals.’” 

She said it like it was a joke they’d shared before. 

“This is some kind of mistake,” Jason said. “I’m not supposed to be here.” 

The boy in front of him turned and laughed. “Yeah, right, Jason. We’ve all been framed! I didn’t run away six times. Piper didn’t steal a BMW.” 

The girl blushed. “I didn’t steal that car, Leo!” 

“Oh, I forgot, Piper. What was your story? You ‘talked’ the dealer into lending it to you?” He raised his eyebrows at Jason like, Can you believe her? 
Leo looked like a Latino Santa’s elf, with curly black hair, pointy ears, a cheerful, babyish face, and a mischievous smile that told you right away this 
guy should not be trusted around matches or sharp objects. His long, nimble fingers wouldn’t stop moving — drumming on the seat, sweeping his hair 
behind his ears, fiddling with the buttons of his army fatigue jacket. Either the kid was naturally hyper or he was hopped up on enough sugar and caffeine 
to give a heart attack to a water buffalo. 

“Anyway,” Leo said, “I hope you’ve got your worksheet, ’cause I used mine for spit wads days ago. Why are you looking at me like that? Somebody 
draw on my face again?” 

“I don’t know you,” Jason said. 

Leo gave him a crocodile grin. “Sure. I’m not your best friend. I’m his evil clone.” 

“Leo Valdez!” Coach Hedge yelled from the front. “Problem back there?” 

Leo winked at Jason. “Watch this.” He turned to the front. “Sorry, Coach! I was having trouble hearing you. Could you use your megaphone, please?” 
Coach Hedge grunted like he was pleased to have an excuse. He unclipped the megaphone from his belt and continued giving directions, but his 
voice came out like Darth Vader’s. The kids cracked up. The coach tried again, but this time the megaphone blared: “The cow says moo!” 

The kids howled, and the coach slammed down the megaphone. “Valdez!” 

Piper stifled a laugh. “My god, Leo. How did you do that?” 

Leo slipped a tiny Phillips head screwdriver from his sleeve. “I’m a special boy.” 

“Guys, seriously,” Jason pleaded. “What am I doing here? Where are we going?” 

Piper knit her eyebrows. “Jason, are you joking?” 

“No! I have no idea—" 

“Aw, yeah, he’s joking,” Leo said. “He’s trying to get me back for that shaving cream on the Jell-0 thing, aren’t you?” 

Jason stared at him blankly. 

“No, I think he’s serious.” Piper tried to take his hand again, but he pulled it away. 

“I’m sorry,” he said. “I don’t — I can’t — ” 

“That’s it!” Coach Hedge yelled from the front. “The back row has just volunteered to clean up after lunch!” 

The rest of the kids cheered. 

“There’s a shocker,” Leo muttered. 

But Piper kept her eyes on Jason, like she couldn’t decide whether to be hurt or worried. “Did you hit your head or something? You really don’t know 
who we are?" 

Jason shrugged helplessly. “It’s worse than that. I don’t know who / am.” 



The bus dropped them in front of a big red stucco complex like a museum, just sitting in the middle of nowhere. Maybe that’s what it was: the National 
Museum of Nowhere, Jason thought. A cold wind blew across the desert. Jason hadn’t paid much attention to what he was wearing, but it wasn’t nearly 
warm enough: jeans and sneakers, a purple T-shirt, and a thin black windbreaker. 

“So, a crash course for the amnesiac,” Leo said, in a helpful tone that made Jason think this was not going to be helpful. “We go to the ‘Wilderness 
School’” — Leo made air quotes with his fingers. “Which means we’re ‘bad kids.’ Your family, or the court, or whoever, decided you were too much trouble, 
so they shipped you off to this lovely prison — sorry, ‘boarding school’ — in Armpit, Nevada, where you learn valuable nature skills like running ten miles a 
day through the cacti and weaving daisies into hats! And for a special treat we go on ‘educational’ field trips with Coach Hedge, who keeps order with a 
baseball bat. Is it all coming back to you now?” 

“No.” Jason glanced apprehensively at the other kids: maybe twenty guys, half that many girls. None of them looked like hardened criminals, but he 
wondered what they’d all done to get sentenced to a school for delinquents, and he wondered why he belonged with them. 

Leo rolled his eyes. “>bu’re really gonna play this out, huh? Okay, so the three of us started here together this semester. We’re totally tight. Nt>u do 
everything I say and give me your dessert and do my chores — ’’ 

“Leo!” Piper snapped. 

“Fine. Ignore that last part. But we are friends. Well, Piper’s a little more than your friend, the last few weeks — ” 

“Leo, stop it!” Piper’s face turned red. Jason could feel his face burning too. He thought he’d remember if he’d been going out with a girl like Piper. 
“He’s got amnesia or something,” Piper said. “We’ve got to tell somebody.” 

Leo scoffed. “Who, Coach Hedge? He’d try to fix Jason by whacking him upside the head.” 

The coach was at the front of the group, barking orders and blowing his whistle to keep the kids in line; but every so often he’d glance back at Jason 
and scowl. 

“Leo, Jason needs help,” Piper insisted. “He’s got a concussion or — ” 

“Nt>, Piper.” One of the other guys dropped back to join them as the group was heading into the museum. The new guy wedged himself between 
Jason and Piper and knocked Leo down. “Don’t talk to these bottom-feeders. You’re my partner, remember?” 

The new guy had dark hair cut Superman style, a deep tan, and teeth so white they should’ve come with a warning label: do not stare directly at teeth, 
permanent blindness may occur. He wore a Dallas Cowboys jersey, Western jeans and boots, and he smiled like he was God’s gift to juvenile delinquent 
girls everywhere. Jason hated him instantly. 

“Go away, Dylan,” Piper grumbled. “I didn’t ask to work with you.” 

“Ah, that’s no way to be. This is your lucky day!” Dylan hooked his arm through hers and dragged her through the museum entrance. Piper shot one 
last look over her shoulder like, 911. 

Leo got up and brushed himself off. “I hate that guy.” He offered Jason his arm, like they should go skipping inside together. “‘I’m Dylan. I’m so cool, I 
want to date myself, but I can’t figure out how! You want to date me instead? \bu’re so lucky!”’ 

“Leo,” Jason said, “you’re weird.” 

“Nfeah, you tell me that a lot.” Leo grinned. “But if you don’t remember me, that means I can reuse all my old jokes. Come on!” 

Jason figured that if this was his best friend, his life must be pretty messed up; but he followed Leo into the museum. 

They walked through the building, stopping here and there for Coach Hedge to lecture them with his megaphone, which alternately made him sound like a 
Sith Lord or blared out random comments like “The pig says oink.” 

Leo kept pulling out nuts, bolts, and pipe cleaners from the pockets of his army jacket and putting them together, like he had to keep his hands busy 
at all times. 

Jason was too distracted to pay much attention to the exhibits, but they were about the Grand Canyon and the Hualapai tribe, which owned the 
museum. 

Some girls kept looking over at Piper and Dylan and snickering. Jason figured these girls were the popular clique. They wore matching jeans and 
pink tops and enough makeup for a Halloween party. 

One of them said, “Hey, Piper, does your tribe run this place? Do you get in free if you do a rain dance?” 

The other girls laughed. Even Piper’s so-called partner Dylan suppressed a smile. Piper’s snowboarding jacket sleeves hid her hands, but Jason got 
the feeling she was clenching her fists. 

“My dad’s Cherokee,” she said. “Not Hualapai. 'Course, you’d need a few brain cells to know the difference, Isabel.” 

Isabel widened her eyes in mock surprise, so that she looked like an owl with a makeup addiction. “Oh, sorry! Was your mom in this tribe? Oh, that’s 
right. You never knew your mom.” 

Piper charged her, but before a fight could start, Coach Hedge barked, “Enough back there! Set a good example or I’ll break out my baseball bat!” 
The group shuffled on to the next exhibit, but the girls kept calling out little comments to Piper. 

“Good to be back on the rez?” one asked in a sweet voice. 

“Dad’s probably too drunk to work,” another said with fake sympathy. “That’s why she turned klepto.” 

Piper ignored them, but Jason was ready to punch them himself. He might not remember Piper, or even who he was, but he knew he hated mean 

kids. 

Leo caught his arm. “Be cool. Piper doesn't like us fighting her battles. Besides, if those girls found out the truth about her dad, they’d be all bowing 
down to her and screaming, ‘We’re not worthy!”’ 

“Why? What about her dad?” 

Leo laughed in disbelief. “Ntiu’re not kidding? Nt>u really don’t remember that your girlfriend’s dad — ” 

“Look, I wish I did, but I don’t even remember her, much less her dad." 

Leo whistled. “Whatever. We have to talk when we get back to the dorm.” 

They reached the far end of the exhibit hall, where some big glass doors led out to a terrace. 

“All right, cupcakes,” Coach Hedge announced. “You are about to see the Grand Canyon. Try not to break it. The skywalk can hold the weight of 
seventy jumbo jets, so you featherweights should be safe out there. If possible, try to avoid pushing each other over the edge, as that would cause me 
extra paperwork.” 

The coach opened the doors, and they all stepped outside. The Grand Canyon spread before them, live and in person. Extending over the edge was 
a horseshoe-shaped walkway made of glass, so you could see right through it. 

“Man,” Leo said. “That’s pretty wicked.” 

Jason had to agree. Despite his amnesia and his feeling that he didn’t belong there, he couldn’t help being impressed. 

The canyon was bigger and wider than you could appreciate from a picture. They were up so high that birds circled below their feet. Five hundred 
feet down, a river snaked along the canyon floor. Banks of storm clouds had moved overhead while they’d been inside, casting shadows like angry faces 




across the cliffs. As far as Jason could see in any direction, red and gray ravines cut through the desert like some crazy god had taken a knife to it. 

Jason got a piercing pain behind his eyes. Crazy gods ... Where had he come up with that idea? He felt like he’d gotten close to something 
important — something he should know about. He also got the unmistakable feeling he was in danger. 

“Nt>u all right?” Leo asked. “You’re not going to throw up over the side, are you? ’Cause I should’ve brought my camera." 

Jason grabbed the railing. He was shivering and sweaty, but it had nothing to do with heights. He blinked, and the pain behind his eyes subsided. 

“I’m fine,” he managed. “Just a headache.” 

Thunder rumbled overhead. A cold wind almost knocked him sideways. 

“This can’t be safe.” Leo squinted at the clouds. “Storm's right over us, but it’s clear all the way around. Weird, huh?” 

Jason looked up and saw Leo was right. A dark circle of clouds had parked itself over the skywalk, but the rest of the sky in every direction was 
perfectly clear. Jason had a bad feeling about that. 

“All right, cupcakes!” Coach Hedge yelled. He frowned at the storm like it bothered him too. “We may have to cut this short, so get to work! 
Remember, complete sentences!” 

The storm rumbled, and Jason’s head began to hurt again. Not knowing why he did it, he reached into his jeans pocket and brought out a coin — a 
circle of gold the size of a half-dollar, but thicker and more uneven. Stamped on one side was a picture of a battle-ax. On the other was some guy’s face 
wreathed in laurels. The inscription said something like ivlivs. 

“Dang, is that gold?” Leo asked. “\bu been holding out on me!” 

Jason put the coin away, wondering how he’d come to have it, and why he had the feeling he was going to need it soon. 

“It’s nothing,” he said. “Just a coin.” 

Leo shrugged. Maybe his mind had to keep moving as much as his hands. “Come on,” he said. “Dare you to spit over the edge.” 

They didn’t try very hard on the worksheet. For one thing, Jason was too distracted by the storm and his own mixed-up feelings. For another thing, he 
didn’t have any idea howto “name three sedimentary strata you observe” or “describe two examples of erosion.” 

Leo was no help. He was too busy building a helicopter out of pipe cleaners. 

“Check it out.” He launched the copter. Jason figured it would plummet, but the pipe-cleaner blades actually spun. The little copter made it halfway 
across the canyon before it lost momentum and spiraled into the void. 

“How’d you do that?” Jason asked. 

Leo shrugged. “Would’ve been cooler if I had some rubber bands.” 

“Seriously,” Jason said, “are we friends?” 

“Last I checked.” 

“Nt>u sure? What was the first day we met? What did we talk about?” 

“It was ...” Leo frowned. “I don’t recall exactly. I’m ADHD, man. You can’t expect me to remember details.” 

“But I don't remember you at all. I don’t remember anyone here. What if — ” 

“Ntiu’re right and everyone else is wrong?” Leo asked. “>bu think you just appeared here this morning, and we’ve all got fake memories of you?” 

A little voice in Jason’s head said, That’s exactly what I think. 

But it sounded crazy. Everybody here took him for granted. Everyone acted like he was a normal part of the class — except for Coach Hedge. 

“Take the worksheet.” Jason handed Leo the paper. “I’ll be right back.” 

Before Leo could protest, Jason headed across the skywalk. 

Their school group had the place to themselves. Maybe it was too early in the day for tourists, or maybe the weird weather had scared them off. The 
Wilderness School kids had spread out in pairs across the skywalk. Most were joking around or talking. Some of the guys were dropping pennies over 
the side. About fifty feet away, Piper was trying to fill out her worksheet, but her stupid partner Dylan was hitting on her, putting his hand on her shoulder 
and giving her that blinding white smile. She kept pushing him away, and when she saw Jason she gave him a look like, Throttle this guy for me. 

Jason motioned for her to hang on. He walked up to Coach Hedge, who was leaning on his baseball bat, studying the storm clouds. 

“Did you do this?” the coach asked him. 

Jason took a step back. “Do what?” It sounded like the coach had just asked if he’d made the thunderstorm. 

Coach Hedge glared at him, his beady little eyes glinting under the brim of his cap. “Don't play games with me, kid. What are you doing here, and 
why are you messing up my job?" 

“Nt>u mean. ..you dont know me?” Jason said. “I’m notone of your students?” 

Hedge snorted. “Never seen you before today.” 

Jason was so relieved he almost wanted to cry. At least he wasn’t going insane. He was in the wrong place. “Look, sir, I don't know how I got here. I 
just woke up on the school bus. All I know is I’m not supposed to be here.” 

“Got that right." Hedge’s gruff voice dropped to a murmur, like he was sharing a secret. “You got a powerful way with the Mist, kid, if you can make all 
these people think they know you; but you can’t fool me. I’ve been smelling monster for days now. I knew we had an infiltrator, but you don’t smell like a 
monster. You smell like a half-blood. So — who are you, and where’d you come from?” 

Most of what the coach said didn’t make sense, but Jason decided to answer honestly. “I don’t know who I am. I don’t have any memories. Ntiu’ve got 
to help me.” 

Coach Hedge studied his face like was trying to read Jason’s thoughts. 

“Great,” Hedge muttered. “You’re being truthful.” 

“Of course I am! And what was all that about monsters and half-bloods? Are those code words or something?” 

Hedge narrowed his eyes. Part of Jason wondered if the guy was just nuts. But the other part knew better. 

“Look, kid,” Hedge said, “I don’t know who you are. I just know what you are, and it means trouble. Now I got to protect three of you rather than two. 
Are you the special package? Is that it?” 

“What are you talking about?” 

Hedge looked at the storm. The clouds were getting thicker and darker, hovering right over the skywalk. 

“This morning,” Hedge said, “I got a message from camp. They said an extraction team is on the way. They’re coming to pick up a special package, 
but they wouldn’t give me details. I thought to myself, Fine. The two I’m watching are pretty powerful, older than most. I know they’re being stalked. I can 
smell a monster in the group. I figure that’s why the camp is suddenly frantic to pick them up. But then you pop up out of nowhere. So, are you the special 
package?” 

The pain behind Jason’s eyes got worse than ever. Half-bloods. Camp. Monsters. He still didn’t know what Hedge was talking about, but the words 
gave him a massive brain freeze — like his mind was trying to access information that should’ve been there but wasn’t. 

He stumbled, and Coach Hedge caught him. For a short guy, the coach had hands like steel. “Whoa, there, cupcake. You say you got no memories, 




huh? Fine. I’ll just have to watch you, too, until the team gets here. We’ll let the director figure things out.” 

“What director?” Jason said. “What camp?” 

“Just sit tight. Reinforcements should be here soon. Hopefully nothing happens before — ” 

Lightning crackled overhead. The wind picked up with a vengeance. Worksheets flew into the Grand Canyon, and the entire bridge shuddered. Kids 
screamed, stumbling and grabbing the rails. 

“I had to say something,” Hedge grumbled. He bellowed into his megaphone: “Everyone inside! The cow says moo! Off the skywalk!” 

“I thought you said this thing was stable!” Jason shouted over the wind. 

“Under normal circumstances,” Hedge agreed, “which these aren’t. Come on!” 




JASON 

The storm churned into aminiature hurricane Funnel clouds snaked toward the skywalk like the tendrils of a monster jellyfish. 

Kids screamed and ran for the building. The wind snatched away their notebooks, jackets, hats, and backpacks. Jason skidded across the slick 

floor. 

Leo lost his balance and almost toppled over the railing, but Jason grabbed his jacket and pulled him back. 

“Thanks, man!” Leo yelled. 

“Go, go, go!” said Coach Hedge. 

Piper and Dylan were holding the doors open, herding the other kids inside. Piper’s snowboarding jacket was flapping wildly, her dark hair all in her 
face. Jason thought she must’ve been freezing, but she looked calm and confident — telling the others it would be okay, encouraging them to keep moving. 

Jason, Leo, and Coach Hedge ran toward them, but it was like running through quicksand. The wind seemed to fight them, pushing them back. 

Dylan and Piper pushed one more kid inside, then lost their grip on the doors. They slammed shut, closing off the skywalk. 

Piper tugged at the handles. Inside, the kids pounded on the glass, but the doors seemed to be stuck. 

“Dylan, help!” Piper shouted. 

Dylan just stood there with an idiotic grin, his Cowboys jersey rippling in the wind, like he was suddenly enjoying the storm. 

“Sorry, Piper,” he said. “I’m done helping.” 

He flicked his wrist, and Piper flew backward, slamming into the doors and sliding to the skywalk deck. 

“Piper!” Jason tried to charge forward, but the wind was against him, and Coach Hedge pushed him back. 

“Coach,” Jason said, “let me go!” 

“Jason, Leo, stay behind me,” the coach ordered. “This is my fight. I should’ve known that was our monster.” 

“What?” Leo demanded. A rogue worksheet slapped him in the face, but he swatted it away. “What monster?” 

The coach’s cap blew off, and sticking up above his curly hair were two bumps — like the knots cartoon characters get when they’re bonked on the 
head. Coach Hedge lifted his baseball bat — but it wasn’t a regular bat anymore. Somehow it had changed into a crudely shaped tree-branch club, with 
twigs and leaves still attached. 

Dylan gave him that psycho happy smile. “Oh, come on, Coach. Let the boy attack me! After all, you’re getting too old for this. Isn’t that why they 
retired you to this stupid school? I’ve been on your team the entire season, and you didn’t even know. \bu’re losing your nose, grandpa.” 

The coach made an angry sound like an animal bleating. “That’s it, cupcake. You’re going down.” 

“Nt>u think you can protect three half-bloods at once, old man?” Dylan laughed. “Good luck.” 

Dylan pointed at Leo, and a funnel cloud materialized around him. Leo flew off the skywalk like he’d been tossed. Somehow he managed to twist in 
midair, and slammed sideways into the canyon wall. He skidded, clawing furiously for any handhold. Finally he grabbed a thin ledge about fifty feet below 
the skywalk and hung there by his fingertips. 

“Help!” he yelled up at them. “Rope, please? Bungee cord? Something?” 

Coach Hedge cursed and tossed Jason his club. “I don’t know who you are, kid, but I hope you’re good. Keep that thing busy” — he stabbed a thumb 
at Dylan — “while I get Leo.” 

“Get him how?” Jason demanded. “Nt>u going to fly?” 

“Not fly. Climb.” Hedge kicked off his shoes, and Jason almost had a coronary. The coach didn’t have any feet. He had hooves — goat’s hooves. 
Which meant those things on his head, Jason realized, weren’t bumps. They were horns. 

“Nbu’re a faun,” Jason said. 

“Satyr!” Hedge snapped. “Fauns are Roman. But we’ll talk about that later." 

Hedge leaped over the railing. He sailed toward the canyon wall and hit hooves first. He bounded down the cliff with impossible agility, finding 
footholds no bigger than postage stamps, dodging whirlwinds that tried to attack him as he picked his way toward Leo. 

“Isn’t that cute!” Dylan turned toward Jason. “Now it’s your turn, boy.” 

Jason threw the club. It seemed useless with the winds so strong, but the club flew right at Dylan, even curving when he tried to dodge, and smacked 
him on the head so hard he fell to his knees. 

Piper wasn’t as dazed as she appeared. Her fingers closed around the club when it rolled next to her, but before she could use it, Dylan rose. Blood 
— golden blood — trickled from his forehead. 

“Nice try, boy.” He glared at Jason. “But you’ll have to do better.” 

The skywalk shuddered. Hairline fractures appeared in the glass. Inside the museum, kids stopped banging on the doors. They backed away, 
watching in terror. 

Dylan’s body dissolved into smoke, as if his molecules were coming unglued. He had the same face, the same brilliant white smile, but his whole 
form was suddenly composed of swirling black vapor, his eyes like electrical sparks in a living storm cloud. He sprouted black smoky wings and rose 
above the skywalk. If angels could be evil, Jason decided, they would look exactly like this. 

“>bu’re a ventus,” Jason said, though he had no idea how he knew that word. “A storm spirit.” 

Dylan’s laugh sounded like a tornado tearing off a roof. “I’m glad I waited, demigod. Leo and Piper I’ve known about for weeks. Could’ve killed them 
at any time. But my mistress said a third was coming — someone special. She’ll reward me greatly for your death!” 

Two more funnel clouds touched down on either side of Dylan and turned into venti — ghostly young men with smoky wings and eyes that flickered 
with lightning. 

Piper stayed down, pretending to be dazed, her hand still gripping the club. Her face was pale, but she gave Jason a determined look, and he 
understood the message: Keep their attention. Ill brain them from behind. 

Cute, smart, and violent. Jason wished he remembered having her as a girlfriend. 



He clenched his fists and got ready to charge, but he never got a chance. 

Dylan raised his hand, arcs of electricity running between his fingers, and blasted Jason in the chest. 

Bang! Jason found himself flat on his back. His mouth tasted like burning aluminum foil. He lifted his head and saw that his clothes were smoking. 
The lightning bolt had gone straight though his body and blasted off his left shoe. His toes were black with soot. 

The storm spirits were laughing. The winds raged. Piper was screaming defiantly, but it all sounded tinny and faraway. 

Out of the corner of his eye, Jason saw Coach Hedge climbing the cliff with Leo on his back. Piper was on her feet, desperately swinging the club to 
fend off the two extra storm spirits, but they were just toying with her. The club went right through their bodies like they weren’t there. And Dylan, a dark and 
winged tornado with eyes, loomed over Jason. 

“Stop,” Jason croaked. He rose unsteadily to his feet, and he wasn't sure who was more surprised: him, or the storm spirits. 

“How are you alive?” Dylan’s form flickered. “That was enough lightning to kill twenty men!” 

“My turn,” Jason said. 

He reached in his pocket and pulled out the gold coin. He let his instincts take over, flipping the coin in the air like he’d done it a thousand times. He 
caught it in his palm, and suddenly he was holding a sword — a wickedly sharp double-edged weapon. The ridged grip fit his fingers perfectly, and the 
whole thing was gold — hilt, handle, and blade. 

Dylan snarled and backed up. He looked at his two comrades and yelled, “Well? Kill him!” 

The other storm spirits didn’t look happy with that order, but they flew at Jason, their fingers crackling with electricity. 

Jason swung at the first spirit. His blade passed through it, and the creature’s smoky form disintegrated. The second spirit let loose a bolt of 
lightning, but Jason's blade absorbed the charge. Jason stepped in — one quick thrust, and the second storm spirit dissolved into gold powder. 

Dylan wailed in outrage. He looked down as if expecting his comrades to re-form, but their gold dust remains dispersed in the wind. “Impossible! 
Who are you, half-blood?” 

Piper was so stunned she dropped her club. “Jason, how ... ?” 

Then Coach Hedge leaped back onto the skywalk and dumped Leo like a sack of flour. 

“Spirits, fear me!” Hedge bellowed, flexing his short arms. Then he looked around and realized there was only Dylan. 

“Curse it, boy!” he snapped at Jason. “Didn’t you leave some for me? I like a challenge!” 

Leo got to his feet, breathing hard. He looked completely humiliated, his hands bleeding from clawing at the rocks. “Nt>, Coach Supergoat, whatever 
you are — I just fell down the freaking Grand Canyon! Stop asking for challenges!” 

Dylan hissed at them, but Jason could see fear in his eyes. “Nt>u have no idea how many enemies you’ve awakened, half-bloods. My mistress will 
destroy all demigods. This war you cannot win.” 

Above them, the storm exploded into a full-force gale. Cracks expanded in the skywalk. Sheets of rain poured down, and Jason had to crouch to 
keep his balance. 

A hole opened in the clouds — a swirling vortex of black and silver. 

“The mistress calls me back!” Dylan shouted with glee. “And you, demigod, will come with me!” 

He lunged at Jason, but Piper tackled the monster from behind. Even though he was made of smoke, Piper somehow managed to connect. Both of 
them went sprawling. Leo, Jason, and the coach surged forward to help, but the spirit screamed with rage. He let loose a torrent that knocked them all 
backward. Jason and Coach Hedge landed on their butts. Jason’s sword skidded across the glass. Leo hit the back of his head and curled on his side, 
dazed and groaning. Piper got the worst of it. She was thrown off Dylan’s back and hit the railing, tumbling over the side until she was hanging by one 
hand over the abyss. 

Jason started toward her, but Dylan screamed, “I’ll settle for this one!” 

He grabbed Leo’s arm and began to rise, towing a half-conscious Leo below him. The storm spun faster, pulling them upward like a vacuum cleaner. 

“Help!” Piper yelled. “Somebody!” 

Then she slipped, screaming as she fell. 

“Jason, go!” Hedge yelled. “Save her!” 

The coach launched himself at the spirit with some serious goat fu — lashing out with his hooves, knocking Leo free from the spirit’s grasp. Leo 
dropped safely to the floor, but Dylan grappled the coach’s arms instead. Hedge tried to head-butt him, then kicked him and called him a cupcake. They 
rose into the air, gaining speed. 

Coach Hedge shouted down once more, “Save her! I got this!” Then the satyr and the storm spirit spiraled into the clouds and disappeared. 

Save her? Jason thought. She’s gone! 

But again his instincts won. He ran to the railing, thinking, I’m a lunatic, and jumped over the side. 

Jason wasn’t scared of heights. He was scared of being smashed against the canyon floor five hundred feet below. He figured he hadn’t accomplished 
anything except for dying along with Piper, but he tucked in his arms and plummeted headfirst. The sides of the canyon raced past like a film on fast- 
forward. His face felt like it was peeling off. 

In a heartbeat, he caught up with Piper, who was flailing wildly. He tackled her waist and closed his eyes, waiting for death. Piper screamed. The wind 
whistled in Jason’s ears. He wondered what dying would feel like. He was thinking, probably not so good. He wished somehow they could never hit 
bottom. 

Suddenly the wind died. Piper’s scream turned into a strangled gasp. Jason thought they must be dead, but he hadn’t felt any impact. 

“J-J-Jason,” Piper managed. 

He opened his eyes. They weren’t falling. They were floating in midair, a hundred feet above the river. 

He hugged Piper tight, and she repositioned herself so she was hugging him too. They were nose to nose. Her heart beat so hard, Jason could feel it 
through her clothes. 

Her breath smelled like cinnamon. She said, “How did you — ” 

“I didn’t,” he said. “I think I would know if I could fly. . .” 

But then he thought: / donteven knowvJho I am. 

He imagined going up. Piper yelped as they shot a few feet higher. They weren’t exactly floating, Jason decided. He could feel pressure under his 
feet like they were balancing at the top of a geyser. 

“The air is supporting us,” he said. 

“Well, tell it to support us more! Get us out of here!” 

Jason looked down. The easiest thing would be to sink gently to the canyon floor. Then he looked up. The rain had stopped. The storm clouds didn’t 
seem as bad, but they were still rumbling and flashing. There was no guarantee the spirits were gone for good. He had no idea what had happened to 
Coach Hedge. And he’d left Leo up there, barely conscious. 




“We have to help them,” Piper said, as if reading his thoughts. “Can you — ” 

“Let’s see.” Jason thought Up, and instantly they shot skyward. 

The fact he was riding the winds might’ve been cool under different circumstances, but he was too much in shock. As soon as they landed on the 
skywalk, they ran to Leo. 

Piper turned Leo over, and he groaned. His army coat was soaked from the rain. His curly hair glittered gold from rolling around in monster dust. But 
at least he wasn’t dead. 

“Stupid ... ugly ... goat,” he muttered. 

“Where did he go?” Piper asked. 

Leo pointed straight up. “Never came down. Please tell me he didn’t actually save my life." 

“Twice,” Jason said. 

Leo groaned even louder. “What happened? The tornado guy, the gold sword ... I hit my head. That’s it, right? I’m hallucinating?” 

Jason had forgotten about the sword. He walked over to where it was lying and picked it up. The blade was well balanced. On a hunch he flipped it. 
Midspin, the sword shrank back into a coin and landed in his palm. 

“Nfep,” Leo said. “Definitely hallucinating." 

Piper shivered in her rain-soaked clothes. “Jason, those things — ” 

“Venti,” he said. “Storm spirits.” 

“Okay. You acted like ... like you’d seen them before. Who are you?” 

He shook his head. “That’s what I’ve been trying to tell you. I don't know." 

The storm dissipated. The other kids from the Wilderness School were staring out the glass doors in horror. Security guards were working on the 
locks now, but they didn't seem to be having any luck. 

“Coach Hedge said he had to protect three people,” Jason remembered. “I think he meant us.” 

“And that thing Dylan turned into . . .” Piper shuddered. “God, I can't believe it was hitting on me. He called us... what, demigods ?” 

Leo lay on his back, staring at the sky. He didn’t seem anxious to get up. “Don’t know what demi means,” he said. “But I’m not feeling too godly. Nfciu 
guys feeling godly?” 

There was a brittle sound like dry twigs snapping, and the cracks in the skywalk began to widen. 

“We need to get off this thing,” Jason said. “Maybe if we — ” 

“Ohhh-kay,” Leo interrupted. “Look up there and tell me if those are flying horses.” 

At first Jason thought Leo had hit his head too hard. Then he saw a dark shape descending from the east — too slow for a plane, too large for a bird. 
As it got closer he could see a pair of winged animals — gray, four-legged, exactly like horses — except each one had a twenty-foot wingspan. And they 
were pulling a brightly painted box with two wheels: a chariot. 

“Reinforcements,” he said. “Hedge told me an extraction squad was coming for us.” 

“Extraction squad?” Leo struggled to his feet. “That sounds painful.” 

“And where are they extracting us to?” Piper asked. 

Jason watched as the chariot landed on the far end of the skywalk. The flying horses tucked in their wings and cantered nervously across the glass, 
as if they sensed it was near breaking. Two teenagers stood in the chariot — a tall blond girl maybe a little older than Jason, and a bulky dude with a 
shaved head and a face like a pile of bricks. They both wore jeans and orange T-shirts, with shields tossed over their backs. The girl leaped off before the 
chariot had even finished moving. She pulled a knife and ran toward Jason’s group while the bulky dude was reining in the horses. 

“Where is he?” the girl demanded. Her gray eyes were fierce and a little startling. 

“Where’s who?” Jason asked. 

She frowned like his answer was unacceptable. Then she turned to Leo and Piper. “What about Gleeson? Where is your protector, Gleeson Hedge?” 
The coach’s first name was Gleeson? Jason might’ve laughed if the morning hadn’t been quite so weird and scary. Gleeson Hedge: football coach, 
goat man, protector of demigods. Sure. Why not? 

Leo cleared his throat. “He got taken by some ... tornado things.” 

“Venti, ’’Jason said. “Storm spirits.” 

The blond girl arched an eyebrow. “\bu mean anemoi thuellai ? That’s the Greek term. Who are you, and what happened?” 

Jason did his best to explain, though it was hard to meet those intense gray eyes. About halfway through the story, the other guy from the chariot 
came over. He stood there glaring at them, his arms crossed. He had a tattoo of a rainbow on his biceps, which seemed a little unusual. 

When Jason had finished his story, the blond girl didn’t look satisfied. “No, no, no! She told me he would be here. She told me if I came here, I’d find 
the answer.” 

“Annabeth,” the bald guy grunted. “Check it out.” He pointed at Jason’s feet. 

Jason hadn’t thought much about it, but he was still missing his left shoe, which had been blown off by the lightning. His bare foot felt okay, but it 
looked like a lump of charcoal. 

“The guy with one shoe,” said the bald dude. “He’s the answer.” 

“No, Butch,” the girl insisted. “He can’t be. I was tricked.” She glared at the sky as though it had done something wrong. “What do you want from me?” 
she screamed. “What have you done with him?” 

The skywalk shuddered, and the horses whinnied urgently. 

“Annabeth,” said the bald dude, Butch, “we gotta leave. Let’s get these three to camp and figure it out there. Those storm spirits might come back.” 
She fumed for a moment. “Fine.” She fixed Jason with a resentful look. “We'll settle this later.” 

She turned on her heel and marched toward the chariot. 

Piper shook her head. “What’s her problem? What’s going on?” 

“Seriously,” Leo agreed. 

“We have to get you out of here,” Butch said. “I’ll explain on the way.” 

“I’m not going anywhere with her." Jason gestured toward the blonde. “She looks like she wants to kill me.” 

Butch hesitated. “Annabeth’s okay. \t>u gotta cut her some slack. She had a vision telling her to come here, to find a guy with one shoe. That was 
supposed to be the answer to her problem.” 

“What problem?” Piper asked. 

“She’s been looking for one of our campers, who’s been missing three days,” Butch said. “She’s going out of her mind with worry. She hoped he’d be 
here.” 

“Who?” Jason asked. 

“Her boyfriend,” Butch said. “A guy named Percy Jackson.” 




I I 1 



PIPER 

Aftera MORNING OF STORM SPIRITS, goat men, and flying boyfriends, Piper should’ve been losing her mind. Instead, all she felt was dread. 

It’s starting, she thought. Just like the dream said. 

She stood in back of the chariot with Leo and Jason, while the bald guy, Butch, handled the reins, and the blond girl, Annabeth, adjusted a bronze 
navigation device. They rose over the Grand Canyon and headed east, icy wind ripping straight through Piper’s jacket. Behind them, more storm clouds 
were gathering. 

The chariot lurched and bumped. It had no seat belts and the back was wide open, so Piper wondered if Jason would catch her again if she fell. That 
had been the most disturbing part of the morning — not that Jason could fly, but that he’d held her in his arms and yet didn’t know who she was. 

All semester she’d worked on a relationship, trying to get Jason to notice her as more than a friend. Finally she’d gotten the big dope to kiss her. The 
last few weeks had been the best of her life. And then, three nights ago, the dream had ruined everything — that horrible voice, giving her horrible news. 
She hadn’t told anyone about it, not even Jason. 

Now she didn’t even have him. It was like someone had wiped his memory, and she was stuck in the worst “do over” of all time. She wanted to 
scream. Jason stood right next to her: those sky blue eyes, close-cropped blond hair, that cute little scar on his upper lip. His face was kind and gentle, but 
always a little sad. And he just stared at the horizon, not even noticing her. 

Meanwhile, Leo was being annoying, as usual. “This is so cool!” He spit a pegasus feather out of his mouth. “Where are we going?” 

“A safe place,” Annabeth said. “The only safe place for kids like us. Camp Half-Blood.” 

“Half-Blood?” Piper was immediately on guard. She hated that word. She’d been called a half-blood too many times — half Cherokee, half white — and 
it was never a compliment. “Is that some kind of bad joke?” 

“She means we’re demigods,” Jason said. “Half god, half mortal.” 

Annabeth looked back. “You seem to know a lot, Jason. But, yes, demigods. My mom is Athena, goddess of wisdom. Butch here is the son of Iris, the 
rainbow goddess.” 

Leo choked. “\t>ur mom is a rainbow goddess?” 

“Got a problem with that?” Butch said. 

“No, no,” Leo said. “Rainbows. Very macho.” 

“Butch is our best equestrian," Annabeth said. “He gets along great with the pegasi.” 

“Rainbows, ponies,” Leo muttered. 

“I’m gonna toss you off this chariot,” Butch warned. 

“Demigods,” Piper said. “\bu mean you think you’re ... you think we’re — ” 

Lightning flashed. The chariot shuddered, and Jason yelled, “Left wheel’s on fire!” 

Piper stepped back. Sure enough, the wheel was burning, white flames lapping up the side of the chariot. 

The wind roared. Piper glanced behind them and saw dark shapes forming in the clouds, more storm spirits spiraling toward the chariot — except 
these looked more like horses than angels. 

She started to say, “Why are they—” 

“Anemoi come in different shapes,” Annabeth said. “Sometimes human, sometimes stallions, depending on how chaotic they are. Hold on. This is 
going to get rough.” 

Butch flicked the reins. The pegasi put on a burst of speed, and the chariot blurred. Piper’s stomach crawled into her throat. Her vision went black, 
and when it came back to normal, they were in a totally different place. 

A cold gray ocean stretched out to the left. Snow-covered fields, roads, and forests spread to the right. Directly below them was a green valley, like 
an island of springtime, rimmed with snowy hills on three sides and water to the north. Piper saw a cluster of buildings like ancient Greek temples, a big 
blue mansion, ball courts, a lake, and a climbing wall that seemed to be on fire. But before she could really process all she was seeing, their wheels came 
off and the chariot dropped out of the sky. 

Annabeth and Butch tried to maintain control. The pegasi labored to hold the chariot in a flight pattern, but they seemed exhausted from their burst of 
speed, and bearing the chariot and the weight of five people was just too much. 

“The lake!” Annabeth yelled. “Aim for the lake!” 

Piper remembered something her dad had once told her, about hitting water from up high being as bad as hitting cement. 

And then — BOOM. 

The biggest shock was the cold. She was underwater, so disoriented that she didn't know which way was up. 

She just had time to think: This would be a stupid way to die . Then faces appeared in the green murk — girls with long black hair and glowing yellow 
eyes. They smiled at her, grabbed her shoulders, and hauled her up. 

They tossed her, gasping and shivering, onto the shore. Nearby, Butch stood in the lake, cutting the wrecked harnesses off the pegasi. Fortunately, 
the horses looked okay, but they were flapping their wings and splashing water everywhere. Jason, Leo, and Annabeth were already on shore, surrounded 
by kids giving them blankets and asking questions. Somebody took Piper by the arms and helped her stand. Apparently kids fell into the lake a lot, 
because a detail of campers ran up with big bronze leaf blower-looking things and blasted Piper with hot air; and in about two seconds her clothes were 
dry. 

There were at least twenty campers milling around — the youngest maybe nine, the oldest college age, eighteen or nineteen — and all of them had 
orange T-shirts like Annabeth’s. Piper looked back at the water and saw those strange girls just below the surface, their hair floating in the current. They 
waved like, toodle-oo, and disappeared into the depths. A second later the wreckage of the chariot was tossed from the lake and landed nearby with a 
wet crunch. 

“Annabeth!” A guy with a bow and quiver on his back pushed through the crowd. “I said you could borrowthe chariot, not destroy it!” 

“Will, I’m sorry,” Annabeth sighed. “I’ll get it fixed, I promise.” 

Will scowled at his broken chariot. Then he sized up Piper, Leo, and Jason. “These are the ones? Way older than thirteen. Why haven’t they been 
claimed already?” 

“Claimed?” Leo asked. 



Before Annabeth could explain, Will said, “Any sign of Percy?" 

“No,” Annabeth admitted. 

The campers muttered. Piper had no idea who this guy Percy was, but his disappearance seemed to be a big deal. 

Another girl stepped forward — tall, Asian, dark hair in ringlets, plenty of jewelry, and perfect makeup. Somehow she managed to make jeans and an 
orange T-shirt look glamorous. She glanced at Leo, fixed her eyes on Jason like he might be worthy of her attention, then curled her lip at Piper as if she 
were a week-old burrito that had just been pulled out of a Dumpster. Piper knew this girl’s type. She’d dealt with a lot of girls like this at Wilderness School 
and every other stupid school her father had sent her to. Piper knew instantly they were going to be enemies. 

“Well,” the girl said, “I hope they’re worth the trouble." 

Leo snorted. “Gee, thanks. What are we, your new pets?” 

“No kidding,” Jason said. “How about some answers before you start judging us — like, what is this place, why are we here, how long do we have to 
stay?” 

Piper had the same questions, but a wave of anxiety washed over her. Worth the trouble. If they only knew about her dream. They had no idea... 
“Jason,” Annabeth said, “I promise we’ll answer your questions. And Drew” — she frowned at the glamour girl — “all demigods are worth saving. But I'll 
admit, the trip didn’t accomplish what I hoped.” 

“Hey,” Piper said, “we didn't ask to be brought here." 

Drew sniffed. “And nobody wants you, hon. Does your hair always look like a dead badger?” 

Piper stepped forward, ready to smack her, but Annabeth said, “Piper, stop.” 

Piper did. She wasn’t a bit scared of Drew, but Annabeth didn’t seem like somebody she wanted for an enemy. 

“We need to make our new arrivals feel welcome,” Annabeth said, with another pointed look at Drew. “We’ll assign them each a guide, give them a 
tour of camp. Hopefully by the campfire tonight, they’ll be claimed.” 

“Would somebody tell me what claimed means?” Piper asked. 

Suddenly there was a collective gasp. The campers backed away. At first Piper thought she’d done something wrong. Then she realized their faces 
were bathed in a strange red light, as if someone had lit a torch behind her. She turned and almost forgot howto breathe. 

Floating over Leo’s head was a blazing holographic image — a fiery hammer. 

“That,” Annabeth said, “is claiming.” 

“What’d I do?” Leo backed toward the lake. Then he glanced up and yelped. “Is my hair on fire?” He ducked, but the symbol followed him, bobbing 
and weaving so it looked like he was trying to write something in flames with his head. 

“This can’t be good,” Butch muttered. “The curse — ” 

“Butch, shut up,” Annabeth said. “Leo, you’ve just been claimed — ” 

“By a god," Jason interrupted. “That’s the symbol of Vulcan, isn’t it?” 

All eyes turned to him. 

“Jason,” Annabeth said carefully, “how did you know that?” 

“I’m not sure." 

“Vulcan?” Leo demanded. “I don’t even LIKE Star Trek. What are you talking about?” 

“Vulcan is the Roman name for Hephaestus,” Annabeth said, “the god of blacksmiths and fire.” 

The fiery hammer faded, but Leo kept swatting the air like he was afraid it was following him. “The god of what? Who?” 

Annabeth turned to the guy with the bow. “Will, would you take Leo, give him a tour? Introduce him to his bunk-mates in Cabin Nine.” 

“Sure, Annabeth.” 

“What’s Cabin Nine?” Leo asked. “And I’m not a Vulcan!” 

“Come on, Mr. Spock, I’ll explain everything.” Will put a hand on his shoulder and steered him off toward the cabins. 

Annabeth turned her attention back to Jason. Usually Piper didn’t like it when other girls checked out her boyfriend, but Annabeth didn’t seem to care 
that he was a good-looking guy. She studied him more like he was a complicated blueprint. Finally she said, “Hold out your arm.” 

Piper saw what she was looking at, and her eyes widened. 

Jason had taken off his windbreaker after his dip in the lake, leaving his arms bare, and on the inside of his right forearm was a tattoo. How had 
Piper never noticed it before? She’d looked at Jason’s arms a million times. The tattoo couldn't have just appeared, but it was darkly etched, impossible 
to miss: a dozen straight lines like a bar code, and over that an eagle with the letters spqr. 

“I’ve never seen marks like this,” Annabeth said. “Where did you get them?” 

Jason shook his head. “I’m getting really tired of saying this, but I don’t know.” 

The other campers pushed forward, trying to get a look at Jason’s tattoo. The marks seemed to bother them a lot — almost like a declaration of war. 
“They look burned into your skin,” Annabeth noticed. 

“They were,” Jason said. Then he winced as if his head was aching. “I mean ... I think so. I don’t remember.” 

No one said anything. It was clear the campers saw Annabeth as the leader. They were waiting for her verdict. 

“He needs to go straight to Chiron,” Annabeth decided. “Drew, would you — ” 

“Absolutely.” Drew laced her arm through Jason’s. “This way, sweetie. I’ll introduce you to our director. He’s ... an interesting guy.” She flashed Piper 
a smug look and led Jason toward the big blue house on the hill. 

The crowd began to disperse, until only Annabeth and Piper were left. 

“Who’s Chiron?” Piper asked. “Is Jason in some kind of trouble?” 

Annabeth hesitated. “Good question, Piper. Come on, I'll give you a tour. We need to talk.” 




I V 



PIPER 



Piper soon reauzedAnnabeths heart wasn’t in the tour. 

She talked about all this amazing stuff the camp offered — magic archery, pegasus riding, the lava wall, fighting monsters — but she showed no 
excitement, as if her mind were elsewhere. She pointed out the open-air dining pavilion that overlooked Long Island Sound. (Yes, Long Island, New 'rbrk; 
they’d traveled thatfar on the chariot.) Annabeth explained how Camp Half-Blood was mostly a summer camp, but some kids stayed here year-round, 
and they’d added so many campers it was always crowded now, even in winter. 

Piper wondered who ran the camp, and how they’d known Piper and her friends belonged here. She wondered if she’d have to stay full-time, or if 
she’d be any good at the activities. Could you flunk out of monster fighting? A million questions bubbled in her head, but given Annabeth’s mood, she 
decided to keep quiet. 

As they climbed a hill at the edge of camp, Piper turned and got an amazing view of the valley — a big stretch of woods to the northwest, a beautiful 
beach, the creek, the canoe lake, lush green fields, and the whole layout of the cabins — a bizarre assortment of buildings arranged like a Greek omega, 
Q, with a loop of cabins around a central green, and two wings sticking out the bottom on either side. Piper counted twenty cabins in all. One glowed 
golden, another silver. One had grass on the roof. Another was bright red with barbed wire trenches. One cabin was black with fiery green torches out 
front. 

All of it seemed like a different world from the snowy hills and fields outside. 

“The valley is protected from mortal eyes,” Annabeth said. “As you can see, the weather is controlled, too. Each cabin represents a Greek god — a 
place for that god’s children to live.” 

She looked at Piper like she was trying to judge how Piper was handling the news. 

“Nbu’re saying Mom was a goddess.” 

Annabeth nodded. “You’re taking this awfully calmly.” 

Piper couldn’t tell her why. She couldn’t admit that this just confirmed some weird feelings she’d had for years, arguments she’d had with her father 
about why there were no photos of Mom in the house, and why Dad would never tell her exactly how or why her mom had left them. But mostly, the dream 
had warned her this was coming. Soon they will find you, demigod, that voice had rumbled. When they do, follow our directions. Cooperate, and your 
father might live. 

Piper took a shaky breath. “I guess after this morning, it’s a little easier to believe. So who’s my mom?” 

“We should know soon, ’’Annabeth said. “Yiu’re what— fifteen? Gods are supposed to claim you when you’re thirteen. That was the deal." 

“The deal?” 

“They made a promise last summer ... well, long story... but they promised not to ignore their demigod children anymore, to claim them by the time 
they turn thirteen. Sometimes it takes a little longer, but you saw how fast Leo was claimed once he got here. Should happen for you soon. Tonight at the 
campfire, I bet we’ll get a sign." 

Piper wondered if she’d have a big flaming hammer over her head, or with her luck, something even more embarrassing. A flaming wombat, maybe. 
Whoever her mother was, Piper had no reason to think she’d be proud to claim a kleptomaniac daughter with massive problems. “Why thirteen?” 

“The older you get,” Annabeth said, “the more monsters notice you, try to kill you. ’Round thirteen is usually when it starts. That’s why we send 
protectors into the schools to find you guys, get you to camp before it’s too late.” 

“Like Coach Hedge?” 

Annabeth nodded. “He’s — he was a satyr: half man, half goat. Satyrs work for the camp, finding demigods, protecting them, bringing them in when 
the time is right.” 

Piper had no trouble believing Coach Hedge was half goat. She’d seen the guy eat. She’d never liked the coach much, but she couldn’t believe he’d 
sacrificed himself to save them. 

“What happened to him?” she asked. “When we went up into the clouds, did he ... is he gone for good?” 

“Hard to say.” Annabeth’s expression was pained. “Storm spirits ... difficult to battle. Even our best weapons, Celestial bronze, will pass right through 
them unless you can catch them by surprise.” 

“Jason’s sword just turned them to dust,” Piper remembered. 

“He was lucky, then. If you hit a monster just right, you can dissolve them, send their essence back to Tartarus.” 

“Tartarus?” 

“A huge abyss in the Underworld, where the worst monsters come from. Kind of like a bottomless pit of evil. Anyway, once monsters dissolve, it 
usually takes months, even years before they can re-form again. But since this storm spirit Dylan got away — well, I don’t know why he’d keep Hedge alive. 
Hedge was a protector, though. He knew the risks. Satyrs don’t have mortal souls. He’ll be reincarnated as a tree or a flower or something." 

Piper tried to imagine Coach Hedge as a clump of very angry pansies. That made her feel even worse. 

She gazed at the cabins below, and an uneasy feeling settled over her. Hedge had died to get her here safely. Her mom’s cabin was down there 
somewhere, which meant she had brothers and sisters, more people she’d have to betray. Do what we tell you, the voice had said. Or the consequences 
will be painful. She tucked her hands under her arms, trying to stop them from shaking. 

“It’ll be okay,” Annabeth promised. “\bu have friends here. We’ve all been through a lot of weird stuff. We know what you’re going through.” 

I doubt that, Piper thought. 

“I’ve been kicked out of five different schools the past five years," she said. “My dad’s running out of places to put me.” 

“Only five?” Annabeth didn’t sound like she was teasing. “Piper, we’ve all been labeled troublemakers. I ran away from home when I was seven.” 
“Seriously?” 

“Oh, yeah. Most of us are diagnosed with attention deficit disorder or dyslexia, or both — ” 

“Leo’s ADHD," Piper said. 

“Right. It’s because we’re hardwired for battle. Restless, impulsive — we don’t fit in with regular kids. Nt>u should hear how much trouble Percy — ” Her 
face darkened. “Anyway, demigods get a bad rep. How’d you get in trouble?” 

Usually when someone asked that question, Piper started a fight, or changed the subject, or caused some kind of distraction. But for some reason 
she found herself telling the truth. 



“I steal stuff,” she said. “Well, not really steal ..." 

“Is your family poor?” 

Piper laughed bitterly. “Not even. I did it ... I don’t know why. For attention, I guess. My dad never had time for me unless I got in trouble.” 

Annabeth nodded. “I can relate. But you said you didn't really steal? What do you mean?” 

“Well ... nobody ever believes me. The police, teachers — even the people I took stuff from: they’re so embarrassed, they’ll deny what happened. But 
the truth is, I don’t steal anything. I just ask people for things. And they give me stuff. Even a BMW convertible. I just asked. And the dealer said, ‘Sure. 
Take it.’ Later, he realized what he’d done, I guess. Then the police came after me.” 

Piper waited. She was used to people calling her a liar, but when she looked up, Annabeth just nodded. 

“Interesting. If your dad were the god, I’d sayyou’re a child of Hermes, god ofthieves. He can be pretty convincing. But your dad is mortal...” 

“Very,” Piper agreed. 

Annabeth shook her head, apparently mystified. “I don’t know, then. With luck, your mom will claim you tonight.” 

Piper almost hoped it wouldn’t happen. If her mom were a goddess, would she know about that dream? Would she know what Piper had been asked 
to do? Piper wondered if Olympian gods ever blasted their kids with lightning for being evil, or grounded them in the Underworld. 

Annabeth was studying her. Piper decided she was going to have to be careful what she said from now on. Annabeth was obviously pretty smart. If 
anyone could figure out Piper’s secret ... 

“Come on,” Annabeth said at last. “There’s something else I need to check." 

They hiked a little farther until they reached a cave near the top of the hill. Bones and old swords littered the ground. Torches flanked the entrance, 
which was covered in a velvet curtain embroidered with snakes. It looked like the set for some kind of twisted puppet show. 

“What’s in there?” Piper asked. 

Annabeth poked her head inside, then sighed and closed the curtains. “Nothing, right now. A friend’s place. I’ve been expecting her for a few days, 
but so far, nothing.” 

“Nt>ur friend lives in a cave?” 

Annabeth almost managed a smile. “Actually, her family has a luxury condo in Queens, and she goes to a finishing school in Connecticut. But when 
she’s here at camp, yeah, she lives in the cave. She’s our oracle, tells the future. I was hoping she could help me — ” 

“Find Percy,” Piper guessed. 

All the energy drained out of Annabeth, like she’d been holding it together for as long as she could. She sat down on a rock, and her expression was 
so full of pain, Piper felt like a voyeur. 

She forced herself to look away. Her eyes drifted to the crest of the hill, where a single pine tree dominated the skyline. Something glittered in its 
lowest branch — like a fuzzy gold bath mat. 

No ... not a bath mat. It was a sheep’s fleece. 

Okay, Piper thought. Greek camp. They’ve got a replica of the Golden Fleece. 

Then she noticed the base of the tree. At first she thought it was wrapped in a pile of massive purple cables. But the cables had reptilian scales, 
clawed feet, and a snakelike head with yellow eyes and smoking nostrils. 

“That’s — a dragon,” she stammered. “That’s the actual Golden Fleece?” 

Annabeth nodded, but it was clear she wasn’t really listening. Her shoulders drooped. She rubbed her face and took a shaky breath. “Sorry. A little 
tired.” 

“Nt>u look ready to drop,” Piper said. “How long have been searching for your boyfriend?” 

“Three days, six hours, and about twelve minutes.” 

“And you’ve got no idea what happened to him?” 

Annabeth shook her head miserably. “We were so excited because we both started winter break early. We met up at camp on Tuesday, figured we 
had three weeks together. It was going to be great. Then after the campfire, he — he kissed me good night, went back to his cabin, and in the morning, he 
was gone. We searched the whole camp. We contacted his mom. We’ve tried to reach him every way we know how. Nothing. He just disappeared.” 

Piper was thinking: Three days ago. The same night she’d had her dream. “How long were you guys together?” 

“Since August,” Annabeth said. “August eighteenth.” 

“Almost exactly when I met Jason,” Piper said. “But we’ve only been together a few weeks.” 

Annabeth winced. “Piper ... about that. Maybe you should sit down.” 

Piper knew where this was going. Panic started building inside her, like her lungs were filling with water. “Look, I know Jason thought — he thought he 
just appeared at our school today. But that’s not true. I’ve known him for four months.” 

“Piper,” Annabeth said sadly. “It’s the Mist.” 

“Missed ... what?” 

“M-i-s-t. It’s a kind of veil separating the mortal world from the magic world. Mortal minds — they can't process strange stuff like gods and monsters, 
so the Mist bends reality. It makes mortals see things in a way they can understand — like their eyes might just skip over this valley completely, or they 
might look at that dragon and see a pile of cables.” 

Piper swallowed. “No. You said yourself I’m not a regular mortal. I’m a demigod." 

“Even demigods can be affected. I’ve seen it lots of times. Monsters infiltrate some place like a school, pass themselves off as human, and everyone 
thinks they remember that person. They believe he’s always been around. The Mist can change memories, even create memories of things that never 
happened — ” 

“But Jason’s not a monster!” Piper insisted. “He’s a human guy, or demigod, or whatever you want to call him. My memories aren’t fake. They’re so 
real. The time we set Coach Hedge’s pants on fire. The time Jason and I watched a meteor shower on the dorm roof and I finally got the stupid guy to kiss 
me....” 

She found herself rambling, telling Annabeth about her whole semester at Wilderness School. She’d liked Jason from the first week they’d met. He 
was so nice to her, and so patient, he could even put up with hyperactive Leo and his stupid jokes. He’d accepted her for herself and didn’t judge her 
because of the stupid things she’d done. They’d spent hours talking, looking at the stars, and eventually — finally — holding hands. All that couldnt be fake. 
Annabeth pursed her lips. “Piper, your memories are a lot sharper than most. I'll admit that, and I don’t know why that is. But if you know him so well — 

“I do!” 

“Then where is he from?” 

Piper felt like she’d been hit between the eyes. “He must have told me, but — ” 

“Did you ever notice his tattoo before today? Did he ever tell you anything about his parents, or his friends, or his last school?” 

“I — I don’t know, but — ” 

“Piper, what’s his last name?” 




Her mind went blank. She didn’t know Jason’s last name. How could that be? 

She started to cry. She felt like a total fool, but she sat down on the rock next to Annabeth and just fell to pieces. It was too much. Did everything that 
was good in her stupid, miserable life have to be taken away? 

Yes, the dream had told her. Yes, unless you do exactly vJiat we say. 

“Hey,” Annabeth said. “We’ll figure it out. Jason’s here now. Who knows? Maybe it’ll work out with you guys for real.” 

Not likely, Piper thought. Not if the dream had told her the truth. But she couldn’t say that. 

She brushed a tear from her cheek. “You brought me up here so no one would see me blubbering, huh?” 

Annabeth shrugged. “I figured it would be hard for you. I know what it’s like to lose your boyfriend." 

“But I still can't believe ... I know we had something. And now it’s just gone, like he doesn’t even recognize me. If he really did just show up today, then 
why? How’d he get there? Why can’t he remember anything?” 

“Good questions,” Annabeth said. “Hopefully Chiron can figure that out. But for now, we need to get you settled. \bu ready to go back down?" 

Piper gazed at the crazy assortment of cabins in the valley. Her new home, a family who supposedly understood her — but soon they’d be just another 
bunch of people she’d disappointed, just another place she’d been kicked out of. You’ll betray them for us, the voice had warned. Or you II lose 
everything. 

She didn’t have a choice. 

“Nfeah,” she lied. “I’m ready.” 

On the central green, a group of campers was playing basketball. They were incredible shots. Nothing bounced off the rim. Three-pointers went in 
automatically. 

“Apollo’s cabin,” Annabeth explained. “Bunch of showoffs with missile weapons — arrows, basketballs.” 

They walked past a central fire pit, where two guys were hacking at each other with swords. 

“Real blades?” Piper noted. “Isn’t that dangerous?” 

“That’s sort of the point,” Annabeth said. “Uh, sorry. Bad pun. That's my cabin over there. Number Six.” She nodded to a gray building with a carved 
owl over the door. Through the open doorway, Piper could see bookshelves, weapon displays, and one of those computerized SMART Boards they have 
in classrooms. Two girls were drawing a map that looked like a battle diagram. 

“Speaking of blades,” Annabeth said, “come here.” 

She led Piper around the side of the cabin, to a big metal shed that looked like it was meant for gardening tools. Annabeth unlocked it, and inside 
were not gardening tools, unless you wanted to make war on your tomato plants. The shed was lined with all sorts of weapons — from swords to spears to 
clubs like Coach Hedge’s. 

“Every demigod needs a weapon,” Annabeth said. “Hephaestus makes the best, but we have a pretty good selection, too. Athena’s all about strategy 
— matching the right weapon to the right person. Let’s see ...” 

Piper didn’t feel much like shopping for deadly objects, but she knew Annabeth was trying to do something nice for her. 

Annabeth handed her a massive sword, which Piper could hardly lift. 

“No,” they both said at once. 

Annabeth rummaged a little farther in the shed and brought out something else. 

“A shotgun?” Piper asked. 

“Mossberg 500.” Annabeth checked the pump action like it was no big deal. “Don’t worry. It doesn’t hurt humans. It’s modified to shoot Celestial 
bronze, so it only kills monsters.” 

“Urn, I don’t think that’s my style,” Piper said. 

“Mmm, yeah,” Annabeth agreed. “Too flashy.” 

She put the shotgun back and started poking through a rack of crossbows when something in the corner of the shed caught Piper’s eye. 

“What is that?” she said. “A knife?” 

Annabeth dug it out and blew the dust off the scabbard. It looked like it hadn’t seen the light of day in centuries. 

“I don’t know, Piper.” Annabeth sounded uneasy. “I don’t think you want this one. Swords are usually better.” 

“Nt>u use a knife.” Piper pointed to the one strapped to Annabeth’s belt. 

“\feah, but ...’’Annabeth shrugged. “Well, take a look if you want.” 

The sheath was worn black leather, bound in bronze. Nothing fancy, nothing flashy. The polished wood handle fit beautifully in Piper’s hand. When she 
unsheathed it, she found a triangular blade eighteen inches long — bronze gleaming like it had been polished yesterday. The edges were deadly sharp. 
Her reflection in the blade caught her by surprise. She looked older, more serious, not as scared as she felt. 

“It suits you,” Annabeth admitted. “That kind of blade is called a parazonium. It was mostly ceremonial, carried by high-ranking officers in the Greek 
armies. It showed you were a person of power and wealth, but in a fight, it could protect you just fine." 

“I like it,” Piper said. “Why didn’t you think it was right?” 

Annabeth exhaled. “That blade has a long story. Most people would be afraid to claim it. Its first owner ... well, things didn’t turn out too well for her. 
Her name was Helen.” 

Piper let that sink in. “Wait, you mean the Helen? Helen of Troy?” 

Annabeth nodded. 

Suddenly Piper felt like she should be handling the dagger with surgical gloves. “And it’s just sitting in yourtoolshed?” 

“We’re surrounded by Ancient Greek stuff,” Annabeth said. “This isn’t a museum. Weapons like that — they’re meant to be used. They’re our heritage 
as demigods. That was a wedding present from Menelaus, Helen’s first husband. She named the dagger Katoptris.” 

“Meaning?” 

“Mirror,” Annabeth said. “Looking glass. Probably because that’s the only thing Helen used it for. I don’t think it’s ever seen battle.” 

Piper looked at the blade again. For a moment, her own image stared up at her, but then the reflection changed. She saw flames, and a grotesque 
face like something carved from bedrock. She heard the same laughter as in her dream. She saw her dad in chains, tied to a post in front of a roaring 
bonfire. 

She dropped the blade. 

“Piper?” Annabeth shouted to the Apollo kids on the court, “Medic! I need some help over here!” 

“No, it’s — it’s okay,” Piper managed. 

“You sure?” 

“Nfeah. I just ...” She had to control herself. With trembling fingers, she picked up the dagger. “I just got overwhelmed. So much happening today. But 
... I want to keep the dagger, if that’s okay.” 




Annabeth hesitated. Then she waved off the Apollo kids. “Okay, if you’re sure. You turned really pale, there. I thought you were having a seizure or 
something.” 

“I’m fine,” Piper promised, though her heart was still racing. “Is there ... urn, a phone at camp? Can I call my dad?” 

Annabeth’s gray eyes were almost as unnerving as the dagger blade. She seemed to be calculating a million possibilities, trying to read Piper’s 
thoughts. 

“We aren’t allowed phones,” she said. “Most demigods, if they use a cell phone, it’s like sending up a signal, letting monsters know where you are. 
But . . . I’ve got one.” She slipped it out of her pocket. “Kind of against the rules, but if it can be our secret . . .” 

Piper took it gratefully, trying not to let her hands shake. She stepped away from Annabeth and turned to face the commons area. 

She called her dad’s private line, even though she knew what would happen. Voice mail. She’d been trying for three days, ever since the dream. 
Wilderness School only allowed phone privileges once a day, but she’d called every evening, and gotten nowhere. 

Reluctantly she dialed the other number. Her dad’s personal assistant answered immediately. “Mr. McLean’s office.” 

“Jane,” Piper said, gritting her teeth. “Where’s my dad?” 

Jane was silent for a moment, probably wondering if she could get away with hanging up. “Piper, I thought you weren’t supposed to call from school." 
“Maybe I’m not at school," Piper said. “Maybe I ran away to live among the woodland creatures.” 

“Mmm.” Jane didn’t sound concerned. “Well, I’ll tell him you called.” 

“Where is he?” 

“Out.” 

“Nt>u don’t know, do you?" Piper lowered her voice, hoping Annabeth was too nice to eavesdrop. “When are you going to call the police, Jane? He 
could be in trouble." 

“Piper, we are not going to turn this into a media circus. I’m sure he’s fine. He does take off occasionally. He always comes back.” 

“So it’s true. \bu don't know — ” 

“I have to go, Piper,” Jane snapped. “Enjoy school.” 

The line went dead. Piper cursed. She walked back to Annabeth and handed her the phone. 

“No luck?” Annabeth asked. 

Piper didn’t answer. She didn't trust herself not to start crying again. 

Annabeth glanced at the phone display and hesitated. “>bur last name is McLean? Sorry, it’s not my business. But that sounds really familiar.” 
“Common name." 

“\feah, I guess. What does your dad do?” 

“He’s got a degree in the arts,” Piper said automatically. “He’s a Cherokee artist." 

Her standard response. Not a lie, just not the whole truth. Most people, when they heard that, figured her dad sold Indian souvenirs at a roadside 
stand on a reservation. Sitting Bull bobble-heads, wampum necklaces, Big Chief tablets — that kind of thing. 

“Oh.” Annabeth didn’t look convinced, but she put the phone away. “\t>u feeling okay? Want to keep going?” 

Piper fastened her new dagger to her belt and promised herself that later, when she was alone, she’d figure out how it worked. “Sure,” she said. “I 
want to see everything.” 

All the cabins were cool, but none of them struck Piper as hers. No burning signs — wombats or otherwise — appeared over her head. 

Cabin Eight was entirely silver and glowed like moonlight. 

“Artemis?” Piper guessed. 

“Nt>u know Greek mythology,” Annabeth said. 

“I did some reading when my dad was working on a project last year.” 

“I thought he did Cherokee art.” 

Piper bit back a curse. “Oh, right. But — you know, he does other stuff too.” 

Piper thought she’d blown it: McLean, Greek mythology. Thankfully, Annabeth didn’t seem to make the connection. 

“Anyway,” Annabeth continued, “Artemis is goddess of the moon, goddess of hunting. But no campers. Artemis was an eternal maiden, so she 
doesn’t have any kids.” 

“Oh.” That kind of bummed Piper out. She’d always liked the stories of Artemis, and figured she would make a cool mom. 

“Well, there are the Hunters of Artemis,” Annabeth amended. “They visit sometimes. They’re not the children of Artemis, but they’re her handmaidens 
— this band of immortal teenage girls who adventure together and hunt monsters and stuff.” 

Piper perked up. “That sounds cool. They get to be immortal?” 

“Unless they die in combat, or break their vows. Did I mention they have to swear off boys? No dating — ever. For eternity.” 

“Oh,” Piper said. “Never mind." 

Annabeth laughed. Fora moment she looked almost happy, and Piper thought she’d be a cool friend to hang out with in better times. 

Forget it, Piper reminded herself. You’re not going to make any friends here. Not once they find out. 

They passed the next cabin, Number Ten, which was decorated like a Barbie house with lace curtains, a pink door, and potted carnations in the 
windows. They walked bythe doorway, and the smell of perfume almost made Piper gag. 

“Gah, is that where supermodels go to die?” 

Annabeth smirked. “Aphrodite’s cabin. Goddess of love. Drew is the head counselor.” 

“Figures,” Piper grumbled. 

“They’re not all bad,” Annabeth said. “The last head counselor we had was great.” 

“What happened to her?” 

Annabeth’s expression darkened. “We should keep moving.” 

They looked at the other cabins, but Piper just got more depressed. She wondered if she could be the daughter of Demeter, the farming goddess. 
Then again, Piper killed every plant she ever touched. Athena was cool. Or maybe Hecate, the magic goddess. But it didn’t really matter. Even here, 
where everyone was supposed to find a lost parent, she knew she would still end up the unwanted kid. She was not looking forward to the campfire 
tonight. 

“We started with the twelve Olympian gods,” Annabeth explained. “Male gods on the left, female on the right. Then last year, we added a whole bunch 
of new cabins for the other gods who didn’t have thrones on Olympus — Hecate, Hades, Iris — ” 

“What are the two big ones on the end?” Piper asked. 

Annabeth frowned. “Zeus and Hera. King and queen of the gods.” 

Piper headed that way, and Annabeth followed, though she didn’t act very excited. The Zeus cabin reminded Piper of a bank. It was white marble with 
big columns out front and polished bronze doors emblazoned with lightning bolts. 




Hera’s cabin was smaller but done in the same style, except the doors were carved with peacock feather designs, shimmering in different colors. 
Unlike the other cabins, which were all noisy and open and full of activity, the Zeus and Hera cabins looked closed and silent. 

“Are they empty?” Piper asked. 

Annabeth nodded. “Zeus went a long time without having any children. Well, mostly. Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades, the eldest brothers among the gods 
— they’re called the Big Three. Their kids are really powerful, really dangerous. For the last seventy years or so, they tried to avoid having demigod 
children.” 

“Tried to avoid it?” 

“Sometimes they ... urn, cheated. I’ve got a friend, Thalia Grace, who’s the daughter of Zeus. But she gave up camp life and became a Hunter of 
Artemis. My boyfriend, Percy, he’s a son of Poseidon. And there’s a kid who shows up sometimes, Nico — son of Hades. Except for them, there are no 
demigod children of the Big Three gods. At least, not that we know of.” 

“And Hera?” Piper looked at the peacock-decorated doors. The cabin bothered her, though she wasn’t sure why. 

“Goddess of marriage.” Annabeth’s tone was carefully controlled, like she was trying to avoid cursing. “She doesn’t have kids with anyone but Zeus. 
So, yeah, no demigods. The cabin’s just honorary.” 

“Nt>u don’t like her,” Piper noticed. 

“We have a long history,” Annabeth admitted. “I thought we’d made peace, but when Percy disappeared ... I got this weird dream vision from her.” 
“Telling you to come get us,” Piper said. “But you thought Percy would be there.” 

“It’s probably better I don’t talk about it,” Annabeth said. “I’ve got nothing good to say about Hera right now.” 

Piper looked down the base of the doors. “So who goes in here?" 

“No one. The cabin is just honorary, like I said. No one goes in.” 

“Someone does." Piper pointed at a footprint on the dusty threshold. On instinct, she pushed the doors and they swung open easily. 

Annabeth stepped back. “Urn, Piper, I don’t think we should — ” 

“We’re supposed to do dangerous stuff, right?” And Piper walked inside. 

Hera’s cabin was not someplace Piper would want to live. It was as cold as a freezer, with a circle of white columns around a central statue of the 
goddess, ten feet tall, seated on a throne in flowing golden robes. Piper had always thought of Greek statues as white with blank eyes, but this one was 
brightly painted so it looked almost human — except huge. Hera’s piercing eyes seemed to follow Piper. 

At the goddess’s feet, a fire burned in a bronze brazier. Piper wondered who tended it if the cabin was always empty. A stone hawk sat on Hera’s 
shoulder, and in her hand was a staff topped with a lotus flower. The goddess’s hair was done in black plaits. Her face smiled, but the eyes were cold and 
calculating, as if she were saying: Mother knows best. Now dont cross me or I will have to step on you. 

There was nothing else in the cabin — no beds, no furniture, no bathroom, no windows, nothing that anyone could actually use to live. For a goddess of 
home and marriage, Hera’s place reminded Piper of a tomb. 

No, this wasn’t her mom. At least Piper was sure of that. She hadn’t come in here because she felt a good connection, but because her sense of 
dread was stronger here. Her dream — that horrible ultimatum she’d been handed — had something to do with this cabin. 

She froze. They weren't alone. Behind the statue, at a little altar in the back, stood a figure covered in a black shawl. Only her hands were visible, 
palms up. She seemed to be chanting something like a spell or a prayer. 

Annabeth gasped. “Rachel?” 

The other girl turned. She dropped her shawl, revealing a mane of curly red hair and a freckled face that didn’t go with the seriousness of the cabin or 
the black shawl at all. She looked about seventeen, a totally normal teen in a green blouse and tattered jeans covered with marker doodles. Despite the 
cold floor, she was barefoot. 

“Hey!” She ran to give Annabeth a hug. “I’m so sorry! I came as fast as I could.” 

They talked for a few minutes about Annabeth’s boyfriend and how there was no news, et cetera, until finally Annabeth remembered Piper, who was 
standing there feeling uncomfortable. 

“I’m being rude,” Annabeth apologized. “Rachel, this is Piper, one of the half-bloods we rescued today. Piper, this is Rachel Elizabeth Dare, our 
oracle.” 

“The friend who lives in the cave,” Piper guessed. 

Rachel grinned. “That’s me.” 

“So you’re an oracle?” Piper asked. “\bu can tell the future?” 

“More like the future mugs me from time to time,” Rachel said. “I speak prophecies. The oracle’s spirit kind of hijacks me every once in a while and 
speaks important stuff that doesn’t make any sense to anybody. But yeah, the prophecies tell the future.” 

“Oh.” Piper shifted from foot to foot. “That's cool.” 

Rachel laughed. “Don’t worry. Everybody finds it a little creepy. Even me. But usually I’m harmless.” 

“Ntiu’re a demigod?” 

“Nope,” Rachel said. “Just mortal.” 

“Then what are you . . .” Piper waved her hand around the room. 

Rachel’s smile faded. She glanced at Annabeth, then back at Piper. “Just a hunch. Something about this cabin and Percy’s disappearance. They’re 
connected somehow. I’ve learned to follow my hunches, especially the last month, since the gods went silent.” 

“Went silent?” Piper asked. 

Rachel frowned at Annabeth. “\bu haven’t told her yet?” 

“I was getting to that,” Annabeth said. “Piper, for the last month ... well, it’s normal for the gods not to talk to their children very much, but usually we 
can count on some messages nowand then. Some of us can even visit Olympus. I spent practically all semester at the Empire State Building.” 

“Excuse me?” 

“The entrance to Mount Olympus these days.” 

“Oh,” Piper said. “Sure, why not?” 

“Annabeth was redesigning Olympus after it was damaged in the Titan War,” Rachel explained. “She’s an amazing architect. Nfciu should see the 
salad bar — ” 

“Anyway,” Annabeth said, “starting about a month ago, Olympus fell silent. The entrance closed, and no one could get in. Nobody knows why. It’s like 
the gods have sealed themselves off. Even my mom won’t answer my prayers, and our camp director, Dionysus, was recalled.” 

“Nt>ur camp director was the god of ... wine?” 

“\feah, it’s a — ” 

“Long story,” Piper guessed. “Right. Go on.” 




“That’s it, really,” Annabeth said. “Demigods still get claimed, but nothing else. No messages. No visits. No sign the gods are even listening. It’s like 
something has happened — something really bad. Then Percy disappeared.” 

“And Jason showed up on our field trip,” Piper supplied. “With no memory.” 

“Who’s Jason?” Rachel asked. 

“My — ” Piper stopped herself before she could say “boyfriend,” but the effort made her chest hurt. “My friend. But Annabeth, you said Hera sent you a 
dream vision." 

“Right,” Annabeth said. “The first communication from a god in a month, and it’s Hera, the least helpful goddess, and she contacts me, her least 
favorite demigod. She tells me I’ll find out what happened to Percy if I go to the Grand Canyon skywalk and look for a guy with one shoe. Instead, I find you 
guys, and the guy with one shoe is Jason. It doesn’t make sense.” 

“Something bad is happening,” Rachel agreed. She looked at Piper, and Piper felt an overwhelming desire to tell them about her dream, to confess 
that she knew what was happening — at least part of the story. And the bad stuff was only beginning. 

“Guys,” she said. “I — I need to — ” 

Before she could continue, Rachel’s body stiffened. Her eyes began to glow with a greenish light, and she grabbed Piper by the shoulders. 

Piper tried to back away, but Rachel’s hands were like steel clamps. 

Free me, she said. But it wasn’t Rachel’s voice. It sounded like an older woman, speaking from somewhere far away, down a long, echoing pipe. 
Free me, Piper McLean, or the earth shall swallow us. It must be by the solstice. 

The room started spinning. Annabeth tried to separate Piper from Rachel, but it was no use. Green smoke enveloped them, and Piper was no longer 
sure if she was awake or dreaming. The giant statue of the goddess seemed to rise from its throne. It leaned over Piper, its eyes boring into her. The 
statue’s mouth opened, its breath like horribly thick perfume. It spoke in the same echoing voice: Our enemies stir. The fiery one is only the first. Bowto 
his will, and their king shall rise, dooming us all. FREE ME! 

Piper’s knees buckled, and everything went black. 




V 



LEO 



LEO’S T0URWASG0INGC3REAT UNTIL he learned about the dragon. 

The archer dude, Will Solace, seemed pretty cool. Everything he showed Leo was so amazing, it should’ve been illegal. Real Greek warships 
moored at the beach that sometimes had practice fights with flaming arrows and explosives? Sweet! Arts & crafts sessions where you could make 
sculptures with chain saws and blowtorches? Leo was like, Sign me up ! The woods were stocked with dangerous monsters, and no one should ever go 
in there alone? Nice! And the camp was overflowing with fine-looking girls. Leo didn’t quite understand the whole related-to-the-gods business, but he 
hoped that didn’t mean he was cousins with all these ladies. That would suck. At the very least, he wanted to check out those underwater girls in the lake 
again. They were definitely worth drowning for. 

Will showed him the cabins, the dining pavilion, and the sword arena. 

“Do I get a sword?” Leo asked. 

Will glanced at him like he found the idea disturbing. “>bu’ll probably make your own, seeing as how you’re in Cabin Nine.” 

“>feah, what's up with that? Vulcan?” 

“Usually we don’t call the gods by their Roman names,” Will said. “The original names are Greek. \bur dad is Hephaestus.” 

“Festus?” Leo had heard somebody say that before, but he was still dismayed. “Sounds like the god of cowboys.” 

“He- phaestus,” Will corrected. “God of blacksmiths and fire.” 

Leo had heard that too, but he was trying not to think about it. The god of fire ... seriously? Considering what had happened to his mom, that seemed 
like a sick joke. 

“So the flaming hammer over my head,” Leo said. “Good thing, or bad thing?” 

Will took a while to answer. “You were claimed almost immediately. That’s usually good.” 

“But that Rainbow Pony dude, Butch — he mentioned a curse.” 

“Ah ... look, it’s nothing. Since Cabin Nine’s last head counselordied — ” 

“Died? Like, painfully?” 

“I ought to let your bunkmates tell you about it.” 

“>feah, where are my home dawgs? Shouldn’t their counselor be giving me the VIP tour?” 

“He, urn, can’t. Vbu’ll see why." Will forged ahead before Leo could ask anything else. 

“Curses and death,” Leo said to himself. “This just gets better and better." 

He was halfway across the green when he spotted his old babysitter. And she was not the kind of person he expected to see at a demigod camp. 

Leo froze in his tracks. 

“What’s wrong?” Will asked. 

Tia Callida — Auntie Callida. That’s what she’d called herself, but Leo hadn’t seen her since he was five years old. She was just standing there, in the 
shadow of a big white cabin at the end of the green, watching him. She wore her black linen widow’s dress, with a black shawl pulled over her hair. Her 
face hadn’t changed — leathery skin, piercing dark eyes. Her withered hands were like claws. She looked ancient, but no different than Leo remembered. 
“That old lady ...” Leo said. “What’s she doing here?” 

Will tried to follow his gaze. “What old lady?” 

“Dude, the old lady. The one in black. How many old ladies do you see over there?” 

Will frowned. “I think you’ve had a long day, Leo. The Mist could still be playing tricks on your mind. How about we head straight to your cabin now?” 
Leo wanted to protest, but when he looked back toward the big white cabin, Tia Callida was gone. He was sure she’d been there, almost as if 
thinking about his mom had summoned Callida back from the past. 

And that wasn’t good, because Tia Callida had tried to kill him. 

“Just messing with you, man.” Leo pulled some gears and levers from his pockets and started fiddling with them to calm his nerves. He couldn’t have 
everybody at camp thinking he was crazy. At least, not crazier than he really was. 

“Let’s go see Cabin Nine,” he said. “I’m in the mood for a good curse.” 

From the outside, the Hephaestus cabin looked like an oversize RV with shiny metal walls and metal-slatted windows. The entrance was like a bank vault 
door, circular and several feet thick. It opened with lots of brass gears turning and hydraulic pistons blowing smoke. 

Leo whistled. “They got a steampunk theme going on, huh?” 

Inside, the cabin seemed deserted. Steel bunks were folded against the walls like high-tech Murphy beds. Each had a digital control panel, blinking 
LED lights, glowing gems, and interlocking gears. Leo figured each camper had his own combination lock to release his bed, and there was probably an 
alcove behind it with storage, maybe some traps to keep out unwanted visitors. At least, that’s the way Leo would’ve designed it. A fire pole came down 
from the second floor, even though the cabin didn’t appear to have a second floor from the outside. A circular staircase led down into some kind of 
basement. The walls were lined with every kind of power tool Leo could imagine, plus a huge assortment of knives, swords, and other implements of 
destruction. A large workbench overflowed with scrap metal — screws, bolts, washers, nails, rivets, and a million other machine parts. Leo had a strong 
urge to shovel them all into his coat pockets. He loved that kind of stuff. But he’d need a hundred more coats to fit it all. 

Looking around, he could almost imagine he was back in his mom’s machine shop. Not the weapons, maybe — but the tools, the piles of scrap, the 
smell of grease and metal and hot engines. She would’ve loved this place. 

He pushed that thought away. He didn’t like painful memories. Keep moving — that was his motto. Don’t dwell on things. Don’t stay in one place too 
long. It was the only way to stay ahead of the sadness. 

He picked a long implement from the wall. “A weed whacker? What’s the god of fire want with a weed whacker?” 

A voice in the shadows said, “You’d be surprised.” 

At the back ofthe room, one of the bunk beds was occupied. A curtain of dark camouflage material retracted, and Leo could see the guy who’d been 
invisible a second before. It was hard to tell much about him because he was covered in a body cast. His head was wrapped in gauze except for his face, 



which was puffy and bruised. He looked like the Pillsbury Doughboy after a beat-down. 

“I’m Jake Mason,” the guy said. “I’d shake your hand, but ...” 

“Nfeah,” Leo said. “Don’t get up.” 

The guy cracked a smile, then winced like it hurt to move his face. Leo wondered what had happened to him, but he was afraid to ask. 

“Welcome to Cabin Nine,” Jake said. “Been almost a year since we had any new kids. I’m head counselor for now.” 

“For now?” Leo asked. 

Will Solace cleared his throat. “So where is everybody, Jake?” 

“Down at the forges,” Jake said wistfully. “They’re working on . . . you know, that problem.” 

“Oh.” Will changed the subject. “So, you got a spare bed for Leo?” 

Jake studied Leo, sizing him up. “\bu believe in curses, Leo? Or ghosts?” 

I just saw my evil babysitter Tia Callida, Leo thought. She’s got to be dead after all these years. And I can’t go a day without remembering my mom in 
that machine shop fire. Don’t talk to me about ghosts, doughboy. 

But aloud, he said, “Ghosts? Pfft. Nah. I’m cool. A storm spirit chucked me down the Grand Canyon this morning, but you know, all in a day’s work, 
right?” 

Jake nodded. “That’s good. Because I’ll give you the best bed in the cabin — Beckendorf s.” 

“Whoa, Jake,” Will said. “Nt>u sure?” 

Jake called out: “Bunk 1 -A, please.” 

The whole cabin rumbled. A circular section of the floor spiraled open like a camera lens, and a full-size bed popped up. The bronze frame had a 
built-in game station at the footboard, a stereo system in the headboard, a glass-door refrigerator mounted into the base, and a whole bunch of control 
panels running down the side. 

Leo jumped right in and lay back with arms behind his head. “I can handle this.” 

“It retracts into a private room below,” Jake said. 

“Oh, heck, yes,” Leo said. “See /all. I'll be down in the Leo Cave. Which button do I press?” 

“Hold on,” Will Solace protested. “You guys have private underground rooms?” 

Jake probably would’ve smiled if it didn’t hurt so much. “We got lots of secrets, Will. >t>u Apollo guys can’t have all the fun. Our campers have been 
excavating the tunnel system under Cabin Nine for almost a century. We still haven’t found the end. Anyway, Leo, if you don’t mind sleeping in a dead 
man’s bed, it’s yours.” 

Suddenly Leo didn’t feel like kicking back. He sat up, careful not to touch any of the buttons. “The counselor who died — this was his bed?” 

“Nfeah,” Jake said. “Charles Beckendorf." 

Leo imagined saw blades coming through the mattress, or maybe a grenade sewn inside the pillows. “He didn’t, like, die in this bed, did he?” 

“No,” Jake said. “In the Titan War, last summer.” 

“The Titan War,” Leo repeated, “which has nothing to do with this very fine bed?” 

“The Titans,” Will said, like Leo was an idiot. “The big powerful guys that ruled the world before the gods. They tried to make a comeback last 
summer. Their leader, Kronos, built a new palace on top of Mount Tam in California. Their armies came to New "fork and almost destroyed Mount 
Olympus. A lot of demigods died trying to stop them.” 

“I’m guessing this wasn’t on the news?” Leo said. 

It seemed like a fair question, but Will shook his head in disbelief. “Nt>u didn’t hear about Mount St. Helens erupting, or the freak storms across the 
country, or that building collapsing in St. Louis?” 

Leo shrugged. Last summer, he’d been on the run from another foster home. Then a truancy officer caught him in New Mexico, and the court 
sentenced him to the nearest correctional facility — the Wilderness School. “Guess I was busy.” 

“Doesn’t matter,” Jake said. “>bu were lucky to miss it. The thing is, Beckendorf was one of the first casualties, and ever since then — ” 

“Nt>ur cabin’s been cursed,” Leo guessed. 

Jake didn’t answer. Then again, the dude was in a body cast. That was an answer. Leo started noticing little things that he hadn’t seen before — an 
explosion mark on the wall, a stain on the floor that might’ve been oil ... or blood. Broken swords and smashed machines kicked into the corners of the 
room, maybe out of frustration. The place d/c/feel unlucky. 

Jake sighed halfheartedly. “Well, I should get some sleep. I hope you like it here, Leo. It used to be ... really nice.” 

He closed his eyes, and the camouflage curtain drew itself across the bed. 

“Come on, Leo,” Will said. “I’ll take you to the forges.” 

As they were leaving, Leo looked back at his new bed, and he could almost imagine a dead counselor sitting there — another ghost who wasn't going 
to leave Leo alone. 




V I 



LEO 



“How DID HE DIE?” LEOASKED. “I mean Beckendorf.” 

Will Solace trudged ahead. “Explosion. Beckendorf and Percy Jackson blew up a cruise ship full of monsters. Beckendorf didn’t make it out.” 

There was that name again — Percy Jackson, Annabeth’s missing boyfriend. That guy must’ve been into everything around here, Leo thought. 

“So Beckendorf was pretty popular?” Leo asked. “I mean — before he blew up?” 

“He was awesome,” Will agreed. “It was hard on the whole camp when he died. Jake — he became head counselor in the middle of the war. Same as 
I did, actually. Jake did his best, but he never wanted to be leader. He just likes building stuff. Then after the war, things started to go wrong. Cabin Nine’s 
chariots blew up. Their automatons went haywire. Their inventions started to malfunction. It was like a curse, and eventually people started calling it that 
— the Curse of Cabin Nine. Then Jake had his accident — ” 

“Which had something to do with the problem he mentioned,” Leo guessed. 

“They're working on it,” Will said without enthusiasm. “And here we are.” 

The forge looked like a steam-powered locomotive had smashed into the Greek Parthenon and they had fused together. White marble columns lined 
the soot-stained walls. Chimneys pumped smoke over an elaborate gable carved with a bunch of gods and monsters. The building sat at the edge of a 
stream, with several waterwheels turning a series of bronze gears. Leo heard machinery grinding inside, fires roaring, and hammers ringing on anvils. 

They stepped through the doorway, and a dozen guys and girls who’d been working on various projects all froze. The noise died down to the roar of 
the forge and the click-click-click of gears and levers. 

“’Sup, guys,” Will said. “This is your new brother, Leo — urn, what’s your last name?” 

“Valdez.” Leo looked around at the other campers. Was he really related to all of them? His cousins came from some big families, but he’d always 
just had his mom — until she died. 

Kids came up and started shaking hands and introducing themselves. Their names blurred together: Shane, Christopher, Nyssa, Harley (yeah, like 
the motorcycle). Leo knew he’d never keep everybody straight. Too many of them. Too overwhelming. 

None of them looked like the others — all different face types, skin tone, hair color, height. You’d never think, Hey, look, it’s the Hephaestus Bunch! 
But they all had powerful hands, rough with calluses and stained with engine grease. Even little Harley, who couldn’t have been more than eight, looked 
like he could go six rounds with Chuck Norris without breaking a sweat. 

And all the kids shared a sad kind of seriousness. Their shoulders slumped like life had beaten them down pretty hard. Several looked like they’d 
been physically beaten up, too. Leo counted two arm slings, one pair of crutches, an eye patch, six Ace bandages, and about seven thousand Band-Aids. 
“Well, all right!” Leo said. “I hear this is the party cabin!” 

Nobody laughed. They all just stared at him. 

Will Solace patted Leo’s shoulder. “I’ll leave you guys to get acquainted. Somebody show Leo to dinner when it’s time?” 

“I got it,” one of the girls said. Nyssa, Leo remembered. She wore camo pants, a tank top that showed off her buffarms, and a red bandanna over a 
mop of dark hair. Except for the smiley-face Band-Aid on her chin, she looked like one of those female action heroes, like any second she was going to 
grab a machine gun and start mowing down evil aliens. 

“Cool,” Leo said. “I always wanted a sister who could beat me up.” 

Nyssa didn’t smile. “Come on, joker boy. I’ll show you around.” 

★ ★ ★ 

Leo was no stranger to workshops. He’d grown up around grease monkeys and power 
wrench. But he’d never seen any place like the camp forge. 

One guy was working on a battle-ax. He kept testing the blade on a slab of concrete, 
cheese, but the guy looked unsatisfied and went back to honing the edge. 

“What’s he planning to kill with that thing?” Leo asked Nyssa. “A battleship?” 

“>bu never know. Even with Celestial bronze — ” 

“That’s the metal?” 

She nodded. “Mined from Mount Olympus itself. Extremely rare. Anyway, it usually disintegrates monsters on contact, but big powerful ones have 
notoriously tough hides. Drakons, for instances—” 

“Nbu mean dragons?” 

“Similar species. \bu’ll learn the difference in monster-fighting class.” 

“Monster-fighting class. Yeah, I already got my black belt in that.” 

She didn’t crack a smile. Leo hoped she wasn’t this serious all the time. His dad’s side of the family had to have some sense of humor, right? 

They passed a couple of guys making a bronze windup toy. At least that’s what it looked like. It was a six-inch-tall centaur — half man, half horse 
— armed with a miniature bow. One of the campers cranked the centaur’s tail, and it whirred to life. It galloped across the table, yelling, “Die, mosquito! 
Die, mosquito!” and shooting everything in sight. 

Apparently this had happened before, because everybody knew to hit the floor except Leo. Six needle-sized arrows embedded themselves in his 
shirt before a camper grabbed a hammer and smashed the centaur to pieces. 

“Stupid curse!” The camper waved his hammer at the sky. “I just want a magic bug killer! Is that too much to ask?” 

“Ouch,” Leo said. 

Nyssa pulled the needles out of his shirt. “Ah, you’re fine. Let’s move on before they rebuild it.” 

Leo rubbed his chest as they walked. “That sort of thing happen a lot?” 

“Lately,” Nyssa said, “everything we build turns to junk.” 

“The curse?” 

Nyssa frowned. “I don’t believe in curses. But something’s wrong. And if we don’t figure out the dragon problem, it’s gonna get even worse.” 

“The dragon problem?” Leo hoped she was talking about a miniature dragon, maybe one that killed cockroaches, but he got the feeling he wasn’t 
going to be so lucky. 

Nyssa took him over to a big wall map that a couple of girls were studying. The map showed the camp — a semicircle of land with Long Island Sound 



tools. His mom used to joke that his first pacifier was a lug 
Each time he swung, the ax cut into the slab like it was warm 



on the north shore, the woods to the west, the cabins to the east, and a ring of hills to the south. 

“It’s got to be in the hills,” the first girl said. 

“We looked in the hills,” the second argued. “The woods are a better hiding place.” 

“But we already set traps — ” 

“Hold up,” Leo said, “\buguys lost a dragon? A real full-size dragon?” 

“It’s a bronze dragon,” Nyssa said. “But yes, it’s a life-size automaton. Hephaestus cabin built it years ago. Then it was lost in the woods until a few 
summers back, when Beckendorf found it in pieces and rebuilt it. It’s been helping protect the camp, but, urn, it’s a little unpredictable.” 

“Unpredictable,” Leo said. 

“It goes haywire and smashes down cabins, sets people on fire, tries to eat the satyrs.” 

“That’s pretty unpredictable." 

Nyssa nodded. “Beckendorf was the only one who could control it. Then he died, and the dragon just got worse and worse. Finally it went berserk and 
ran off. Occasionally it shows up, demolishes something, and runs away again. Everyone expects us to find it and destroy it — ” 

“Destroy it?” Leo was appalled. “You’ve got a life-size bronze dragon, and you want to destroy it?” 

“It breathes fire,” Nyssa explained. “It’s deadly and out of control.” 

“But it’s a dragon! Dude, that’s so awesome. Can’t you try talking to it, controlling it?” 

“We tried. Jake Mason tried. \bu saw how well that worked.” 

Leo thought about Jake, wrapped in a body cast, lying alone on his bunk. “Still — ” 

“There’s no other option.” Nyssa turned to the other girls. “Let’s try more traps in the woods — here, here, and here. Bait them with thirty-weight motor 
oil.” 

“The dragon drinks that?” Leo asked. 

“Nfeah.” Nyssa sighed regretfully. “He used to like it with a little Tabasco sauce, right before bed. If he springs a trap, we can come in with acid 
sprayers — should melt through his hide. Then we get metal cutters and . . . and finish the job.” 

They all looked sad. Leo realized they didn't want to kill the dragon any more than he did. 

“Guys,” he said. “There has to be another way.” 

Nyssa looked doubtful, but a few other campers stopped what they were working on and drifted over to hear the conversation. 

“Like what?” one asked. “The thing breathes fire. We can’t even get close.” 

Fire, Leo thought. Oh, man, the things he could tell them about fire... But he had to be careful, even if these were his brothers and sisters. Especially 
if he had to live with them. 

“Well ...” He hesitated. “Hephaestus is the god of fire, right? So don’t any of you have like fire resistance or something?” 

Nobody acted as if it was a crazy question, which was a relief, but Nyssa shook her head gravely. 

“That’s a Cyclops ability, Leo. Demigod children of Hephaestus ... we’re just good with our hands. We’re builders, craftsmen, weaponsmiths — stuff 
like that.” 

Leo’s shoulders slumped. “Oh.” 

A guy in back said, “Well, a long time ago — ” 

“Nfeah, okay,” Nyssa conceded. “A long time ago some children of Hephaestus were born with power over fire. But that ability was very, very rare. And 
always dangerous. No demigod like that has been born in centuries. The last one ...” She looked atone of the other kids for help. 

“Sixteen sixty-six,” the girl offered. “Guy named Thomas Faynor. He started the Great Fire of London, destroyed most of the city.” 

“Right,” Nyssa said. “When a child of Hephaestus like that appears, it usually means something catastrophic is about to happen. And we don’t need 
any more catastrophes.” 

Leo tried to keep his face clear of emotion, which wasn’t his strong suit. “I guess I see your point. Too bad, though. If you could resist flames, you 
could get close to the dragon.” 

“Then it would kill you with its claws and fangs,” Nyssa said. “Or simply step on you. No, we’ve got to destroy it. Trust me, if anyone could figure out 
another answer ...” 

She didn’t finish, but Leo got the message. This was the cabin’s big test. If they could do something only Beckendorf could do, if they could subdue 
the dragon without killing it, then maybe their curse would be lifted. But they were stumped for ideas. Any camper who figured out how would be a hero. 

A conch horn blew in the distance. Campers started putting up their tools and projects. Leo hadn’t realized it was getting so late, but he looked 
through the windows and saw the sun going down. His ADHD did that to him sometimes. If he was bored, a fifty-minute class seemed like six hours. If he 
was interested in something, like touring a demigod camp, hours slipped away and bam — the day was over. 

“Dinner,” Nyssa said. “Come on, Leo.” 

“Up at the pavilion, right?” he asked. 

She nodded. 

“Nt>u guys go ahead,” Leo said. “Can you ... give me a second?” 

Nyssa hesitated. Then her expression softened. “Sure. It’s a lot to process. I remember my first day. Come up when you’re ready. Just don't touch 
anything. Almost every project in here can kill you if you’re not careful.” 

“No touching,” Leo promised. 

His cabinmates filed out of the forge. Soon Leo was alone with the sounds of the bellows, the waterwheels, and small machines clicking and whirring. 
He stared at the map of camp — the locations where his newfound siblings were going to put traps to catch a dragon. It was wrong. Plain wrong. 

Very rare, he thought. And always dangerous. 

He held out his hand and studied his fingers. They were long and thin, not callused like the other Hephaestus campers’. Leo had never been the 
biggest or the strongest kid. He’d survived in tough neighborhoods, tough schools, tough foster homes by using his wits. He was the class clown, the court 
jester, because he’d learned early that if you cracked jokes and pretended you weren’t scared, you usually didn’t get beat up. Even the baddest gangster 
kids would tolerate you, keep you around for laughs. Plus, humor was a good way to hide the pain. And if that didn’t work, there was always Plan B. Run 
away. Over and over. 

There was a Plan C, but he’d promised himself never to use it again. 

He felt an urge to try it now — something he hadn’t done since the accident, since his mom’s death. 

He extended his fingers and felt them tingle, like they were waking up — pins and needles. Then flames flickered to life, curls of red-hot fire dancing 
across his palm. 




V I I 



JASON 

As soonas Jason Sffl/v the house, he knew he was a dead man. 

“Here we are!” Drew said cheerfully. “The Big House, camp headquarters.” 

It didn’t look threatening, just a four-story manor painted baby blue with white trim. The wraparound porch had lounge chairs, a card table, and an 
empty wheelchair. Wind chimes shaped like nymphs turned into trees as they spun. Jason could imagine old people coming here for summer vacation, 
sitting on the porch and sipping prune juice while they watched the sunset. Still, the windows seemed to glare down at him like angry eyes. The wide-open 
doorway looked ready to swallow him. On the highest gable, a bronze eagle weathervane spun in the wind and pointed straight in his direction, as if telling 
him to turn around. 

Every molecule in Jason’s body told him he was on enemy ground. 

“I am not supposed to be here,” he said. 

Drew circled her arm through his. “Oh, please. \fou’re perfect here, sweetie. Believe me, I’ve seen a lot of heroes.” 

Drew smelled like Christmas — a strange combination of pine and nutmeg. Jason wondered if she always smelled like that, or if it was some kind of 
special perfume for the holidays. Her pink eyeliner was really distracting. Every time she blinked, he felt compelled to look at her. Maybe that was the 
point, to show off her warm brown eyes. She was pretty. No doubt about that. But she made Jason feel uncomfortable. 

He slipped his arm away as gently as he could. “Look, I appreciate — ” 

“Is it that girl?” Drew pouted. “Oh, please, tell me you are not dating the Dumpster Queen.” 

“>bu mean Piper? Urn ...” 

Jason wasn’t sure how to answer. He didn’t think he’d ever seen Piper before today, but he felt strangely guilty about it. He knew he shouldn’t be in 
this place. He shouldn’t befriend these people, and certainly he shouldn’t date one of them. Still ... Piper had been holding his hand when he woke up on 
that bus. She believed she was his girlfriend. She’d been brave on the skywalk, fighting those venti, and when Jason had caught her in midair and they’d 
held each other face-to-face, he couldn’t pretend he wasn’t a little tempted to kiss her. But that wasn’t right. He didn’t even know his own story. He couldn’t 
play with her emotions like that. 

Drew rolled her eyes. “Let me help you decide, sweetie. Nt>u can do better. A guy with your looks and obvious talent?" 

She wasn’t looking at him, though. She was staring at a spot right above his head. 

“Nbu’re waiting for a sign,” he guessed. “Like what popped over Leo’s head.” 

“What? No! Well ... yes. I mean, from what I heard, you’re pretty powerful, right? You’re going to be important at camp, so I figure your parent will 
claim you right away. And I’d love to see that. I wanna be with you every step of the way! So is your dad or mom the god? Please tell me it’s not your mom. 

I would hate it if you were an Aphrodite kid.” 

“Why?” 

“Then you’d be my half brother, silly. \fou can’t date somebody from your own cabin. Yuck!” 

“But aren’t all the gods related?” Jason asked. “So isn’t everyone here your cousin or something?” 

“Aren’t you cute! Sweetie, the godly side of your family doesn’t count except for your parent. So anybody from another cabin — they're fair game. So 
who’s your godly parent — mom or dad?” 

As usual, Jason didn’t have an answer. He looked up, but no glowing sign popped above his head. At the top of the Big House, the weathervane was 
still pointing his direction, that bronze eagle glaring as if to say, Turn around, kid, while you still can. 

Then he heard footsteps on the front porch. No — not footsteps — hooves. 

“Chiron!” Drew called. “This is Jason. He’s totally awesome!” 

Jason backed up so fast he almost tripped. Rounding the corner of the porch was a man on horseback. Except he wasn’t on horseback — he was 
part of the horse. From the waist up he was human, with curly brown hair and a well-trimmed beard. He wore a T-shirt that said World's Best Centaur, and 
had a quiver and bow strapped to his back. His head was so high up he had to duck to avoid the porch lights, because from the waist down, he was a 
white stallion. 

Chiron started to smile at Jason. Then the color drained from his face. 

“Nt>u ...” The centaur’s eyes flared like a cornered animal’s. “\bu should be dead.” 

Chiron ordered Jason — well, invited, but it sounded like an order — to come inside the house. He told Drew to go back to her cabin, which Drew didn’t 
look happy about. 

The centaur trotted over to the empty wheelchair on the porch. He slipped off his quiver and bow and backed up to the chair, which opened like a 
magician’s box. Chiron gingerly stepped into it with his back legs and began scrunching himself into a space that should’ve been much too small. Jason 
imagined a truck’s reversing noises — beep, beep, beep — as the centaur’s lower half disappeared and the chair folded up, popping out a set of fake 
human legs covered in a blanket, so Chiron appeared to be a regular mortal guy in a wheelchair. 

“Follow me,” he ordered. “We have lemonade.” 

The living room looked like it had been swallowed by a rain forest. Grapevines curved up the walls and across the ceiling, which Jason found a little 
strange. He didn’t think plants grew like that inside, especially in the winter, but these were leafy green and bursting with bunches of red grapes. 

Leather couches faced a stone fireplace with a crackling fire. Wedged in one corner, an old-style Pac-Man arcade game beeped and blinked. 
Mounted on the walls was an assortment of masks — smiley/frowny Greek theater types, feathered Mardi Gras masks, Venetian Carnevale masks with 
big beaklike noses, carved wooden masks from Africa. Grapevines grew through their mouths so they seemed to have leafy tongues. Some had red 
grapes bulging through their eyeholes. 

But the weirdest thing was the stuffed leopard’s head above the fireplace. It looked so real, its eyes seemed to follow Jason. Then it snarled, and 
Jason nearly leaped out of his skin. 

“Now, Seymour,” Chiron chided. “Jason is a friend. Behave yourself.” 

“That thing is alive!” Jason said. 

Chiron rummaged through the side pocket of his wheelchair and brought out a package of Snausages. He threw one to the leopard, who snapped it 



up and licked his lips. 

“Nt>u must excuse the decor,” Chiron said. “All this was a parting gift from our old director before he was recalled to Mount Olympus. He thought it 
would help us to remember him. Mr. D has a strange sense of humor.” 

“Mr. D,” Jason said. “Dionysus?” 

“Mmm hmm.” Chiron poured lemonade, though his hands were trembling a little. “As for Seymour, well, Mr. D liberated him from a Long Island garage 
sale. The leopard is Mr. D’s sacred animal, you see, and Mr. D was appalled that someone would stuff such a noble creature. He decided to grant it life, 
on the assumption that life as a mounted head was better than no life at all. I must say it’s a kinder fate than Seymour’s previous owner got.” 

Seymour bared his fangs and sniffed the air, as if hunting for more Snausages. 

“If he’s only a head,” Jason said, “where does the food go when he eats?” 

“Better not to ask,” Chiron said. “Please, sit.” 

Jason took some lemonade, though his stomach was fluttering. Chiron sat back in his wheelchair and tried for a smile, but Jason could tell it was 
forced. The old man's eyes were as deep and dark as wells. 

“So, Jason,” he said, “would you mind telling me — ah — where you’re from?” 

“I wish I knew.” Jason told him the whole story, from waking up on the bus to crash-landing at Camp Half-Blood. He didn't see any point in hiding the 
details, and Chiron was a good listener. He didn’t react to the story, other than to nod encouragingly for more. 

When Jason was done, the old man sipped his lemonade. 

“I see,” Chiron said. “And you must have questions for me.” 

“Only one,” Jason admitted. “What did you mean when you said that I should be dead?” 

Chiron studied him with concern, as if he expected Jason to burst into flames. “My boy, do you know what those marks on your arm mean? The color 
of your shirt? Do you remember anything?” 

Jason looked at the tattoo on his forearm: SPQR, the eagle, twelve straight lines. 

“No,” he said. “Nothing.” 

“Do you know where you are?” Chiron asked. “Do you understand what this place is, and who I am?” 

“Ntiu’re Chiron the centaur,” Jason said. “I’m guessing you’re the same one from the old stories, who used to train the Greek heroes like Heracles. 
This is a camp for demigods, children of the Olympian gods.” 

“So you believe those gods still exist?" 

“Nfes,” Jason said immediately. “I mean, I don’t think we should worship them or sacrifice chickens to them or anything, but they’re still around because 
they’re a powerful part of civilization. They move from country to country as the center of power shifts — like they moved from Ancient Greece to Rome.” 

7 couldn’t have said it better” Something about Chiron’s voice had changed. “So you already knowthe gods are real. You have already been 
claimed, havent you?” 

“Maybe,” Jason answered. “I’m not really sure.” 

Seymour the leopard snarled. 

Chiron waited, and Jason realized what had just happened. The centaur had switched to another language and Jason had understood, automatically 
answering in the same tongue. 

“Quis erat — ’’Jason faltered, then made a conscious effort to speak English. “What was that?” 

“Nt>u know Latin,” Chiron observed. “Most demigods recognize a few phrases, of course. It’s in their blood, but not as much as Ancient Greek. None 
can speak Latin fluently without practice.” 

Jason tried to wrap his mind around what that meant, but too many pieces were missing from his memory. He still had the feeling that he shouldn’t be 
here. It was wrong — and dangerous. But at least Chiron wasn’t threatening. In fact the centaur seemed concerned for him, afraid for his safety. 

The fire reflected in Chiron’s eyes, making them dance fretfully. “I taught your namesake, you know, the original Jason. He had a hard path. I’ve seen 
many heroes come and go. Occasionally, they have happy endings. Mostly, they don’t. It breaks my heart, like losing a child each time one of my pupils 
dies. But you — you are not like any pupil I’ve ever taught. Your presence here could be a disaster.” 

“Thanks,” Jason said. “You must be an inspiring teacher.” 

“I am sorry, my boy. But it’s true. I had hoped that after Percy’s success — ” 

“Percy Jackson, you mean. Annabeth’s boyfriend, the one who’s missing.” 

Chiron nodded. “I hoped that after he succeeded in the Titan War and saved Mount Olympus, we might have some peace. I might be able to enjoy 
one final triumph, a happy ending, and perhaps retire quietly. I should have known better. The last chapter approaches, just as it did before. The worst is 
yet to come.” 

In the corner, the arcade game made a sad pew-pew-pew-pe tv sound, like a Pac-Man had just died. 

“Ohh-kay,” Jason said. “So — last chapter, happened before, worst yet to come. Sounds fun, but can we go back to the part where I’m supposed to be 
dead? I don't like that part.” 

“I’m afraid I can't explain, my boy. I swore on the River Styx and on all things sacred that I would never ...” Chiron frowned. “But you're here, in violation 
of the same oath. That too, should not be possible. I don't understand. Who would’ve done such a thing? Who — ” 

Seymour the leopard howled. His mouth froze, half open. The arcade game stopped beeping. The fire stopped crackling, its flames hardening like 
red glass. The masks stared down silently at Jason with their grotesque grape eyes and leafy tongues. 

“Chiron?” Jason asked. “What’s going — ” 

The old centaur had frozen, too. Jason jumped off the couch, but Chiron kept staring at the same spot, his mouth open mid-sentence. His eyes didn’t 
blink. His chest didn’t move. 

Jason, a voice said. 

For a horrible moment, he thought the leopard had spoken. Then dark mist boiled out of Seymour’s mouth, and an even worse thought occurred to 
Jason: storm spirits. 

He grabbed the golden coin from his pocket. With a quick flip, it changed into a sword. 

The mist took the form of a woman in black robes. Her face was hooded, but her eyes glowed in the darkness. Over her shoulders she wore a 
goatskin cloak. Jason wasn't sure how he knew it was goatskin, but he recognized it and knew it was important. 

Would you attack your patron? the woman chided. Her voice echoed in Jason's head. Lower your sword. 

“Who are you?” he demanded. “How did you — ” 

Our time is limited, Jason. My prison grows stronger by the hour. It took me a full month to gather enough energy to work even the smallest 
magic through its bonds. I’ve managed to bring you here, but now I have little time left, and even less power. This may be the last time I can speak to 
you. 

“Ntiu’re in prison?” Jason decided maybe he wouldn’t lower his sword. “Look, I don’t know you, and you’re not my patron.” 




You knowme, she insisted. I have known you since your birth. 

“I don’t remember. I don’t remember anything.” 

No, you dont, she agreed. That also was necessary. Long ago, your father gave me your life as a gift to placate my anger. He named you Jason, 
after my favorite mortal. You belong to me. 

“Whoa,” Jason said. “I don’t belong to anyone.” 

Nowis the time to pay your debt, she said. Find my prison. Free me, or their king will rise from the earth, and I will be destroyed. You will never 
retrieve your memory. 

“Is that a threat? You took my memories?” 

You have until sunset on the solstice, Jason. Four short days. Do not fail me. 

The dark woman dissolved, and the mist curled into the leopard’s mouth. 

Time unfroze. Seymour’s howl turned into a cough like he’d sucked in a hair ball. The fire crackled to life, the arcade machine beeped, and Chiron 
said, “ — would dare to bring you here?” 

“Probably the lady in the mist,” Jason offered. 

Chiron looked up in surprise. “Weren’t you just sitting . . . why do you have a sword drawn?” 

“I hate to tell you this,” Jason said, “but I think your leopard just ate a goddess.” 

He told Chiron about the frozen-in-time visit, the dark misty figure that disappeared into Seymour’s mouth. 

“Oh, dear,” Chiron murmured. “That does explain a lot.” 

“Then why don’t you explain a lot to me?” Jason said. “Please." 

Before Chiron could say anything, footsteps reverberated on the porch outside. The front door blew open, and Annabeth and another girl, a redhead, 
burst in, dragging Piper between them. Piper’s head lolled like she was unconscious. 

“What happened?” Jason rushed over. “What’s wrong with her?" 

“Hera’s cabin,” Annabeth gasped, like they’d run all the way. “Vision. Bad." 

The redheaded girl looked up, and Jason saw that she’d been crying. 

“I think ...” The redheaded girl gulped. “I think I may have killed her.” 




V 



JASON 

Jason AND THE REDHEAD, WHO INTRODUCED herself as Rachel, put Piper on the couch while Annabeth rushed down the hall to get a med kit. Piper was still 
breathing, but she wouldn’t wake up. She seemed to be in some kind of coma. 

“We’ve got to heal her,” Jason insisted. “There’s a way, right?” 

Seeing her so pale, barely breathing, Jason felt a surge of protectiveness. Maybe he didn’t really know her. Maybe she wasn’t his girlfriend. But 
they’d survived the Grand Canyon together. They’d come all this way He'd left her side for a little while, and this had happened. 

Chiron put his hand on her forehead and grimaced. “Her mind is in a fragile state. Rachel, what happened?” 

“I wish I knew,” she said. “As soon as I got to camp, I had a premonition about Hera’s cabin. I went inside. Annabeth and Piper came in while I was 
there. We talked, and then — I just blanked out. Annabeth said I spoke in a different voice.” 

“A prophecy?” Chiron asked. 

“No. The spirit of Delphi comes from within. I know how that feels. This was like long distance, a power trying to speak through me." 

Annabeth ran in with a leather pouch. She knelt next to Piper. “Chiron, what happened back there — I’ve never seen anything like it. I’ve heard 
Rachel’s prophecy voice. This was different. She sounded like an older woman. She grabbed Piper’s shoulders and told her — ” 

“To free her from a prison?” Jason guessed. 

Annabeth stared at him. “How did you know that?” 

Chiron made a three-fingered gesture over his heart, like a ward against evil. 

“Jason, tell them. Annabeth, the medicine bag, please.” 

Chiron trickled drops from a medicine vial into Piper’s mouth while Jason explained what had happened when the room froze — the dark misty 
woman who had claimed to be Jason's patron. 

When he was done, no one spoke, which made him more anxious. 

“So does this happen often?” he asked. “Supernatural phone calls from convicts demanding you bust them out of jail?” 

“\fc>ur patron,” Annabeth said. “Not your godly parent?” 

“No, she said patron. She also said my dad had given her my life.” 

Annabeth frowned. “I’ve never of heard anything like that before. You said the storm spirit on the skywalk — he claimed to be working for some 
mistress who was giving him orders, right? Could it be this woman you saw, messing with your mind?” 

“I don’t think so,” Jason said. “If she were my enemy, why would she be asking for my help? She’s imprisoned. She’s worried about some enemy 
getting more powerful. Something about a king rising from the earth on the solstice — ” 

Annabeth turned to Chiron. “Not Kronos. Please tell me it’s not that.” 

The centaur looked miserable. He held Piper’s wrist, checking her pulse. 

At last he said, “It is not Kronos. That threat is ended. But ...” 

“But what?” Annabeth asked. 

Chiron closed the medicine bag. “Piper needs rest. We should discuss this later.” 

“Or now,” Jason said. “Sir, Mr. Chiron, you told me the greatest threat was coming. The last chapter. >bu can’t possibly mean something worse than 
an army of Titans, right?” 

“Oh,” Rachel said in a small voice. “Oh, dear. The woman was Hera. Of course. Her cabin, her voice. She showed herself to Jason at the same 
moment.” 

“Hera?” Annabeth’s snarl was even fiercer than Seymour’s. “She took you over? She did this to Piper?” 

“I think Rachel’s right,” Jason said. “The woman did seem like a goddess. And she wore this — this goatskin cloak. That’s a symbol of Juno, isn’t it?” 

“It is?” Annabeth scowled. “I’ve never heard that.” 

Chiron nodded reluctantly. “Of Juno, Hera’s Roman aspect, in her most warlike state. The goatskin cloak was a symbol of the Roman soldier.” 

“So Hera is imprisoned?” Rachel asked. “Who could do that to the queen of the gods?” 

Annabeth crossed her arms. “Well, whoever they are, maybe we should thank them. If they can shut up Hera — ” 

“Annabeth,” Chiron warned, “she is still one of the Olympians. In many ways, she is the glue that holds the gods’ family together. If she truly has been 
imprisoned and is in danger of destruction, this could shake the foundations of the world. It could unravel the stability of Olympus, which is never great 
even in the best of times. And if Hera has asked Jason for help — ” 

“Fine,” Annabeth grumbled. “Well, we know Titans can capture a god, right? Atlas captured Artemis a few years ago. And in the old stories, the gods 
captured each other in traps all the time. But something worse than a Titan ... ?” 

Jason looked at the leopard’s head. Seymour was smacking his lips like the goddess had tasted much better than a Snausage. “Hera said she’d 
been trying to break through her prison bonds for a month.” 

“Which is how long Olympus has been closed,” Annabeth said. “So the gods must know something bad is going on.” 

“But why use her energy to send me here?” Jason asked. “She wiped my memory, plopped me into the Wilderness School field trip, and sent you a 
dream vision to come pick me up. Why am I so important? Why not just send up an emergency flare to the other gods — let them know where she is so 
they bust her out?” 

“The gods need heroes to do their will down here on earth,” Rachel said. “That’s right, isn’t it? Their fates are always intertwined with demigods.” 
“That’s true,” Annabeth said, “but Jason’s got a point. Why him? Why take his memory?” 

“And Piper’s involved somehow,” Rachel said. “Hera sent her the same message — Free me. And, Annabeth, this must have something to do with 
Percy’s disappearing.” 

Annabeth fixed her eyes on Chiron. “Why are you so quiet, Chiron? What is it we’re facing?” 

The old centaur’s face looked like it had aged ten years in a matter of minutes. The lines around his eyes were deeply etched. “My dear, in this, I 
cannot help you. I am so sorry.” 

Annabeth blinked. “Nbu’ve never . . . you’ve never kept information from me. Even the last great prophecy — ” 

“I will be in my office.” His voice was heavy. “I need some time to think before dinner. Rachel, will you watch the girl? Call Argus to bring her to the 
infirmary, if you’d like. And Annabeth, you should speak with Jason. Tell him about — about the Greek and Roman gods.” 



“But ..." 

The centaur turned his wheelchair and rolled off down the hallway. Annabeth's eyes turned stormy. She muttered something in Greek, and Jason got 
the feeling it wasn’t complimentary toward centaurs. 

“I’m sorry,” Jason said. “I think my being here — I don’t know. I've messed things up coming to the camp, somehow. Chiron said he’d sworn an oath 
and couldn’t talk about it." 

“What oath?” Annabeth demanded. “I’ve never seen him act this way. And why would he tell me to talk to you about the gods..." 

Her voice trailed off. Apparently she’d just noticed Jason’s sword sitting on the coffee table. She touched the blade gingerly, like it might be hot. 

“Is this gold?” she said. “Do you remember where you got it?” 

“No,” Jason said. “Like I said, I don’t remember anything.” 

Annabeth nodded, like she’d just come up with a rather desperate plan. “If Chiron won’t help, we'll need to figure things out ourselves. Which means 
. . . Cabin Fifteen. Rachel, you’ll keep an eye on Piper?” 

“Sure,” Rachel promised. “Good luck, you two.” 

“Hold on,” Jason said. “What’s in Cabin Fifteen?” 

Annabeth stood. “Maybe a way to get your memory back.” 

They headed toward a newer wing of cabins in the southwest corner of the green. Some were fancy, with glowing walls or blazing torches, but Cabin 
Fifteen was not so dramatic. It looked like an old-fashioned prairie house with mud walls and a rush roof. On the door hung a wreath of crimson flowers 
— red poppies, Jason thought, though he wasn’t sure how he knew. 

“Nt>u think this is my parent’s cabin?” he asked. 

“No,” Annabeth said. “This is the cabin for Hypnos, the god of sleep.” 

“Then why — ” 

“Ntiu’ve forgotten everything,” she said. “If there’s any god who can help us figure out memory loss, it’s Hypnos.” 

Inside, even though it was almost dinnertime, three kids were sound asleep under piles of covers. A warm fire crackled in the hearth. Above the 
mantel hung a tree branch, each twig dripping white liquid into a collection of tin bowls. Jason was tempted to catch a drop on his finger just to see what it 
was, but he held himself back. 

Soft violin music played from somewhere. The air smelled like fresh laundry. The cabin was so cozy and peaceful that Jason’s eyelids started to feel 
heavy. A nap sounded like a great idea. He was exhausted. There were plenty of empty beds, all with feather pillows and fresh sheets and fluffy quilts and 
— Annabeth nudged him. “Snap out of it.” 

Jason blinked. He realized his knees had been starting to buckle. 

“Cabin Fifteen does that to everyone,” Annabeth warned. “If you ask me, this place is even more dangerous than the Ares cabin. At least with Ares, 
you can learn where the land mines are.” 

“Land mines?” 

She walked up to the nearest snoring kid and shook his shoulder. “Clovis! Wake up!” 

The kid looked like a baby cow. He had a blond tuft of hair on a wedge-shaped head, with thick features and a thick neck. His body was stocky, but 
he had spindly little arms like he’d never lifted anything heavier than a pillow. 

“Clovis!” Annabeth shook harder, then finally knocked on his forehead about six times. 

“Wh-wh-what?” Clovis complained, sitting up and squinting. He yawned hugely, and both Annabeth and Jason yawned too. 

“Stop that!” Annabeth said. “We need your help.” 

“I was sleeping.” 

“You’re always sleeping.” 

“Good night.” 

Before he could pass out, Annabeth yanked his pillow offthe bed. 

“That’s not fair,” Clovis complained meekly. “Give it back.” 

“First help,” Annabeth said. “Then sleep." 

Clovis sighed. His breath smelled like warm milk. “Fine. What?” 

Annabeth explained about Jason’s problem. Every once in a while she’d snap her fingers under Clovis’s nose to keep him awake. 

Clovis must have been really excited, because when Annabeth was done, he didn’t pass out. He actually stood and stretched, then blinked at Jason. 
“So you don’t remember anything, huh?” 

“Just impressions," Jason said. “Feelings, like ...” 

“Nfes?” Clovis said. 

“Like I know I shouldn’t be here. At this camp. I’m in danger.” 

“Hmm. Close your eyes.” 

Jason glanced at Annabeth, but she nodded reassuringly. 

Jason was afraid he’d end up snoring in one of the bunks forever, but he closed his eyes. His thoughts became murky, as if he were sinking into a 
dark lake. 

The next thing he knew, his eyes snapped open. He was sitting in a chair by the fire. Clovis and Annabeth knelt next to him. 

“ — serious, all right,” Clovis was saying. 

“What happened?” Jason said. “How long — ” 

“Just a few minutes,” Annabeth said. “But it was tense. \bu almost dissolved.” 

Jason hoped she didn’t mean literally, but her expression was solemn. 

“Usually,” Clovis said, “memories are lost for a good reason. They sink under the surface like dreams, and with a good sleep, I can bring them back. 
But this ...” 

“Lethe?” Annabeth asked. 

“No,” Clovis said. “Not even Lethe." 

“Lethe?” Jason asked. 

Clovis pointed to the tree branch dripping milky drops above the fireplace. “The River Lethe in the Underworld. It dissolves your memories, wipes 
your mind clean permanently. That's the branch of a poplar tree from the Underworld, dipped into the Lethe. It’s the symbol of my father, Hypnos. Lethe is 
not a place you want to go swimming.” 

Annabeth nodded. “Percy went there once. He told me it was powerful enough to wipe the mind of a Titan.” 

Jason was suddenly glad he hadn’t touched the branch. “But . . . that’s not my problem?” 

“No,” Clovis agreed. “Nt>ur mind wasn’t wiped, and your memories weren’t buried. They’ve been stolen.” 




The fire crackled. Drops of Lethe water plinked into the tin cups on the mantel. One of the other Hypnos campers muttered in his sleep — something 
about a duck. 

“Stolen,” Jason said. “How?" 

“A god,” Clovis said. “Only a god would have that kind of power.” 

“We know that,” said Jason. “It was Juno. But how did she do it, and why?” 

Clovis scratched his neck. “Juno?" 

“He means Hera,” Annabeth said. “For some reason, Jason likes the Roman names.” 

“Hmm,” Clovis said. 

“What?” Jason asked. “Does that mean something?” 

“Hmm,” Clovis said again, and this time Jason realized he was snoring. 

“Clovis!” he yelled. 

“What? What?” His eyes fluttered open. “We were talking about pillows, right? No, gods. I remember. Greek and Roman. Sure, could be important.” 
“But they’re the same gods,” Annabeth said. “Just different names.” 

“Not exactly,” Clovis said. 

Jason sat forward, now very much awake. “What do you mean, not exactly?” 

“Well ...” Clovis yawned. “Some gods are only Roman. Like Janus, or Pompona. But even the major Greek gods — it’s not just their names that 
changed when they moved to Rome. Their appearances changed. Their attributes changed. They even had slightly different personalities.” 

“But ...’’Annabeth faltered. “Okay, so maybe people saw them differently through the centuries. That doesn’t change who they are.” 

“Sure it does.” Clovis began to nod off, and Jason snapped his fingers under his nose. 

“Coming, Mother!” he yelped. “I mean ... Nfeah, I’m awake. So, urn, personalities. The gods change to reflect their host cultures. You know that, 
Annabeth. I mean, these days, Zeus likes tailored suits, reality television, and that Chinese food place on East Twenty-eighth Street, right? It was the 
same in Roman times, and the gods were Roman almost as long as they were Greek. It was a big empire, lasted for centuries. So of course their Roman 
aspects are still a big part of their character.” 

“Makes sense,” Jason said. 

Annabeth shook her head, mystified. “But how do you know all this, Clovis?" 

“Oh, I spend a lot of time dreaming. I see the gods there all the time — always shifting forms. Dreams are fluid, you know. You can be in different 
places at once, always changing identities. It’s a lot like being a god, actually. Like recently, I dreamed I was watching a Michael Jackson concert, and 
then I was onstage w'th Michael Jackson, and we were singing this duet, and I could not remember the words for The Girl Is Mine.’ Oh, man, it was so 
embarrassing, I — ” 

“Clovis,” Annabeth interrupted. “Back to Rome?” 

“Right, Rome,” Clovis said. “So we call the gods by their Greek names because that’s their original form. But saying their Roman aspects are exactly 
the same — that’s not true. In Rome, they became more warlike. They didn't mingle with mortals as much. They were harsher, more powerful — the gods of 
an empire.” 

“Like the dark side of the gods?” Annabeth asked. 

“Not exactly,” Clovis said. “They stood for discipline, honor, strength — ” 

“Good things, then,” Jason said. For some reason, he felt the need to speak up for the Roman gods, though wasn’t sure why it mattered to him. “I 
mean, discipline is important, right? That’s what made Rome last so long.” 

Clovis gave him a curious look. “That’s true. But the Roman gods weren’t very friendly. For instance, my dad, Hypnos ... he didn’t do much except 
sleep in Greek times. In Roman times, they called him Somnus. He liked killing people who didn’t stay alert at their jobs. If they nodded offat the wrong 
time, boom — they never woke up. He killed the helmsman of Aeneas when they were sailing from Troy.” 

“Nice guy,” Annabeth said. “But I still don’t understand what it has to do with Jason.” 

“Neither do I,” Clovis said. “But if Hera took your memory, only she can give it back. And if I had to meet the queen of the gods, I’d hope she was more 
in a Hera mood than a Juno mood. Can I go back to sleep now?” 

Annabeth stared at the branch above the fire, dripping Lethe water into the cups. She looked so worried, Jason wondered if she was considering a 
drink to forget her troubles. Then she stood and tossed Clovis his pillow. “Thanks, Clovis. We’ll see you at dinner.” 

“Can I get room service?” Clovis yawned and stumbled to his bunk. “I feel like ... 7777 ...” He collapsed with his butt in the air and his face buried in 
pillow. 

“Won’t he suffocate?” Jason asked. 

“He’ll be fine,” Annabeth said. “But I’m beginning to think that you are in serious trouble.” 




I X 



PIPER 



Piper dreamedabout her last day with her dad. 

They were on the beach near Big Sur, taking a break from surfing. The morning had been so perfect, Piper knew something had to go wrong soon 
— a rabid horde of paparazzi, or maybe a great white shark attack. No way her luck could hold. 

But so far, they’d had excellent waves, an overcast sky, and a mile of oceanfront completely to themselves. Dad had found this out-of-the-way spot, 
rented a beachfront villa andthe properties on either side, and somehow managed to keep it secret. If he stayed there too long, Piper knew the 
photographers would find him. They always did. 

“Nice job out there, Pipes.” He gave her the smile he was famous for: perfect teeth, dimpled chin, a twinkle in his dark eyes that always made grown 
women scream and ask him to sign their bodies in permanent marker. ( Seriously , Piper thought, get a life.) His close-cropped black hair gleamed with 
salt water. “You’re getting better at hanging ten.” 

Piper flushed with pride, though she suspected Dad was just being nice. She still spent most of her time wiping out. It took special talent to run over 
yourself with a surfboard. Her dad was the natural surfer — which made no sense since he’d been raised a poor kid in Oklahoma, hundreds of miles from 
the ocean — but he was amazing on the curls. Piper would’ve given up surfing a long time ago except it let her spend time with him. There weren't many 
ways she could do that. 

“Sandwich?” Dad dug into the picnic basket his chef, Arno, had made. “Let’s see: turkey pesto, crabcake wasabi — ah, a Piper special. Peanut butter 
and jelly.” 

She took the sandwich, though her stomach was too upset to eat. She always asked for PB&J. Piper was vegetarian, for one thing. She had been 
ever since they’d driven past that slaughterhouse in Chino and the smell had made her insides want to come outside. But it was more than that. PB&J 
was simple food, like a regular kid would have for lunch. Sometimes she pretended her dad had actually made it for her, not a personal chef from France 
who liked to wrap the sandwich in gold leaf paper with a light-up sparkler instead of a toothpick. 

Couldn’t anything be simple? That’s why she turned down the fancy clothes Dad always offered, the designer shoes, the trips to the salon. She cut 
her own hair with a pair of plastic Garfield safety scissors, deliberately making it uneven. She preferred to wear beat-up running shoes, jeans, a T-shirt, 
and her old Polartec jacket from the time they went snowboarding. 

And she hated the snobby private schools Dad thought were good for her. She kept getting herself kicked out. He kept finding more schools. 

"Vfesterday, she’d pulled her biggest heist yet — driving that “borrowed” BMW out of the dealership. She had to pull a bigger stunt each time, because it 
took more and more to get Dad’s attention. 

Now she regretted it. Dad didn’t know yet. 

She’d meant to tell him that morning. Then he’d surprised her with this trip, and she couldn’t ruin it. It was the first time they’d had a day together in 
what — three months? 

“What’s wrong?” He passed her a soda. 

“Dad, there’s something — ” 

“Hold on, Pipes. That’s a serious face. Ready for Any Three Questions?” 

They’d been playing that game for years — her dad’s way of staying connected in the shortest possible amount of time. They could ask each other any 
three questions. Nothing off-limits, and you had to answer honestly. The rest of the time, Dad promised to stay out of her business — which was easy, since 
he was never around. 

Piper knew most kids would find a Q&A like this with their parents totally mortifying. But she looked forward to it. It was like surfing — not easy, but a 
way to feel like she actually had a father. 

“First question,” she said. “Mom.” 

No surprise. That was always one of her topics. 

Her dad shrugged with resignation. “What do you want to know, Piper? I’ve already told you — she disappeared. I don’t know why, or where she went. 
After you were born, she simply left. I never heard from her again.” 

“Do you think she’s still alive?” 

It wasn’t a real question. Dad was allowed to say he didn’t know. But she wanted to hear how he’d answer. 

He stared at the waves. 

“Nbur Grandpa Tom,” he said at last, “he used to tell me that if you walked far enough toward the sunset, you’d come to Ghost Country, where you 
could talk to the dead. He said a long time ago, you could bring the dead back; but then mankind messed up. Well, it’s a long story.” 

“Like the Land of the Dead for the Greeks,” Piper remembered. “It was in the west, too. And Orpheus — he tried to bring his wife back.” 

Dad nodded. A year before, he’d had his biggest role as an Ancient Greek king. Piper had helped him research the myths — all those old stories 
about people getting turned to stone and boiled in lakes of lava. They’d had a fun time reading together, and it made Piper’s life seem not so bad. For a 
while she’d felt closer to her dad, but like everything, it didn’t last. 

“Lot of similarities between Greek and Cherokee,” Dad agreed. “Wonder what your grandpa would think if he saw us now, sitting at the end of the 
western land. He'd probably think we’re ghosts.” 

“So you’re saying you believe those stories? Nt>u think Mom is dead?” 

His eyes watered, and Piper saw the sadness behind them. She figured that’s why women were so attracted to him. On the surface, he seemed 
confident and rugged, but his eyes held so much sadness. Women wanted to find out why. They wanted to comfort him, and they never could. Dad told 
Piper it was a Cherokee thing — they all had that darkness inside them from generations of pain and suffering. But Piper thought it was more than that. 

“I don’t believe the stories,” he said. “They’re fun to tell, but if I really believed in Ghost Country, or animal spirits, or Greek gods ... I don’t think I could 
sleep at night. I’d always be looking for somebody to blame.” 

Somebody to blame for Grandpa Tom dying of lung cancer, Piper thought, before Dad got famous and had the money to help. For Mom — the only 
woman he’d ever loved — abandoning him without even a good-bye note, leaving him with a newborn girl he wasn’t ready to care for. For his being so 
successful, and yet still not happy. 

“I don’t know if she’s alive,” he said. “But I do think she might as well be in Ghost Country, Piper. There’s no getting her back. If I believed otherwise ... 

I don’t think I could stand that, either.” 



Behind them, a car door opened. Piper turned, and her heart sank. Jane was marching toward them in her business suit, wobbling over the sand in 
her high heels, her PDA in hand. The look on her face was partly annoyed, partly triumphant, and Piper knew she’d been in touch with the police. 

Please fall down, Piper prayed. If there’s any animal spirit or Greek god that can help, make Jane take a header. I’m not asking for permanent 
damage, just knock her out for the rest of the day, please ? 

But Jane kept advancing. 

“Dad,” Piper said quickly. “Something happened yesterday..." 

But he’d seen Jane, too. He was already reconstructing his business face. Jane wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t serious. A studio head called — a project 
fell through — or Piper had messed up again. 

“We’ll get back to that, Pipes,” he promised. “I’d better see what Jane wants. You know how she is.” 

\fes — Piper knew. Dad trudged across the sand to meet her. Piper couldn’t hear them talking, but she didn’t need to. She was good at reading faces. 
Jane gave him the facts about the stolen car, occasionally pointing at Piper like she was a disgusting pet that had whizzed on the carpet. 

Dad’s energy and enthusiasm drained away. He gestured for Jane to wait. Then he walked back to Piper. She couldn’t stand that look in his eyes 
— like she’d betrayed his trust. 

“Nt>u told me you would try, Piper,” he said. 

“Dad, I hate that school. I can't do it. I wanted to tell you about the BMW, but — ” 

“They’ve expelled you,” he said. “A car, Piper? Nfou’re sixteen next year. I would buy you any car you want. How could you — ” 

“Nt>u mean Jane would buy me a car?” Piper demanded. She couldn’t help it. The anger just welled up and spilled out of her. “Dad, just listen for once. 
Don’t make me wait for you to ask your stupid three questions. I want to go to regular school. I want you to take me to parents’ night, not Jane. Or 
homeschool me! I learned so much when we read about Greece together. We could do that all the time! We could — ” 

“Don’t make this about me,” her dad said. “I do the best I can, Piper. We’ve had this conversation.” 

No, she thought. You’ve cut off this conversation. For years. 

Her dad sighed. “Jane’s talked to the police, brokered a deal. The dealership won’t press charges, but you have to agree to go to a boarding school 
in Nevada. They specialize in problems ... in kids with tough issues.” 

“That’s what I am.” Her voice trembled. “A problem.” 

“Piper ... you said you’d try. Nbu let me down. I don’t know what else to do.” 

“Do anything,” she said. “But do it yourself! Don’t let Jane handle it for you. You can’t just send me away.” 

Dad looked down at the picnic basket. His sandwich sat uneaten on a piece of gold leaf paper. They’d planned for a whole afternoon in the surf. Now 
that was ruined. 

Piper couldn’t believe he’d really give in to Jane’s wishes. Not this time. Noton something as huge as boarding school. 

“Go see her,” Dad said. “She’s got the details.” 

“Dad...” 

He looked away, gazing at the ocean like he could see all the way to Ghost Country. Piper promised herself she wouldn't cry. She headed up the 
beach toward Jane, who smiled coldly and held up a plane ticket. As usual, she’d already arranged everything. Piper was just another problem of the day 
that Jane could now check off her list. 

Piper’s dream changed. 

She stood on a mountaintop at night, city lights glimmering below. In front of her, a bonfire blazed. Purplish flames seemed to cast more shadows 
than light, but the heat was so intense, her clothes steamed. 

“This is your second warning,” a voice rumbled, so powerful it shook the earth. Piper had heard that voice before in her dreams. She’d tried to 
convince herself it wasn’t as scary as she remembered, but it was worse. 

Behind the bonfire, a huge face loomed out of the darkness. It seemed to float above the flames, but Piper knew it must be connected to an 
enormous body. The crude features might’ve been chiseled out of rock. The face hardly seemed alive except for its piercing white eyes, like raw 
diamonds, and its horrible frame of dreadlocks, braided with human bones. It smiled, and Piper shivered. 

“Ntiu’ll do what you’re told,” the giant said. “Ntiu’ll go on the quest. Do our bidding, and you may walk away alive. Otherwise — ” 

He gestured to one side of the fire. Piper’s father was hanging unconscious, tied to a stake. 

She tried to cry out. She wanted to call to her dad, and demand the giant let him go, but her voice wouldn’t work. 

“I’ll be watching,” the giant said. “Serve me, and you both live. Ntiu have the word of Enceladus. Fail me ... well, I’ve slept for millennia, young 
demigod, lam very hungry. Fail, and I'll eat well.” 

The giant roared with laughter. The earth trembled. A crevice opened at Piper's feet, and she tumbled into darkness. 

She woke feeling like she’d been trampled by an Irish step-dancing troupe. Her chest hurt, and she could barely breathe. She reached down and 
closed her hand around the hilt of the dagger Annabeth had given her — Katoptris, Helen of Troy’s weapon. 

So Camp Half-Blood hadn’t been a dream. 

“How are you feeling?” someone asked. 

Piper tried to focus. She was lying in a bed with a white curtain on one side, like in a nurse’s office. That redheaded girl, Rachel Dare, sat next to her. 
On the wall was a poster of a cartoon satyr who looked disturbingly like Coach Hedge with a thermometer sticking out of his mouth. The caption read: 
Don t let sickness get your goat! 

“Where — ” Piper’s voice died when she saw the guy at the door. 

He looked like a typical California surfer dude — buff and tan, blond hair, dressed in shorts and a T-shirt. But he had hundreds of blue eyes all over his 
body — along his arms, down his legs, and all over his face. Even his feet had eyes, peering up at her from between the straps of his sandals. 

“That’s Argus,” Rachel said, “our head of security. He’s just keeping an eye on things ... so to speak." 

Argus nodded. The eye on his chin winked. 

“Where — ?” Piper tried again, but she felt like she was talking through a mouthful of cotton. 

“Ntiu’re in the Big House,” Rachel said. “Camp offices. We brought you here when you collapsed." 

“Ntiu grabbed me,” Piper remembered. “Hera’s voice — ” 

“I’m so sorry about that,” Rachel said. “Believe me, it was not my idea to get possessed. Chiron healed you with some nectar — ” 

“Nectar?” 

“The drink of the gods. In small amounts, it heals demigods, if it doesn’t — ah — burn you to ashes." 

“Oh. Fun." 

Rachel sat forward. “Do you remember your vision?” 




Piper had a moment of dread, thinking she meant the dream about the giant. Then she realized Rachel was talking about what happened in Hera’s 
cabin. 

“Something’s wrong with the goddess,” Piper said. “She told me to free her, like she’s trapped. She mentioned the earth swallowing us, and a fiery 
one, and something about the solstice.” 

In the corner, Argus made a rumbling sound in his chest. His eyes all fluttered at once. 

“Hera created Argus,” Rachel explained. “He’s actually very sensitive when it comes to her safety. We’re trying to keep him from crying, because last 
time that happened . . .well, it caused quite a flood.” 

Argus sniffled. He grabbed a fistful of Kleenexfrom the bedside table and started dabbing eyes all over his body. 

“So ...” Piper tried not to stare as Argus wiped the tears from his elbows. “What’s happened to Hera?” 

“We’re not sure,” Rachel said. “Annabeth and Jason were here for you, by the way. Jason didn’t want to leave you, but Annabeth had an idea 
— something that might restore his memories.” 

“That’s ... that’s great.” 

Jason had been here for her? She wished she’d been conscious for that. But if he got his memories back, would that be a good thing? She was still 
holding out hope that they really did know each other. She didn’t want their relationship to be just a trick of the Mist. 

Get over yourself, she thought. If she was going to save her dad, it didn’t matter whether Jason liked her or not. He would hate her eventually. 
Everyone here would. 

She looked down at the ceremonial dagger strapped to her side. Annabeth had said it was a sign of power and status, but not normally used in 
battle. All show and no substance. A fake, just like Piper. And its name was Katoptris, looking glass. She didn’t dare unsheathe it again, because she 
couldn’t bear to see her own reflection. 

“Don’t worry.” Rachel squeezed her arm. “Jason seems like a good guy. He had a vision too, a lot like yours. Whatever’s happening with Hera — I 
think you two are meant to work together.” 

Rachel smiled like this was good news, but Piper’s spirits plunged even further. She’d thought that this quest — whatever it was — would involve 
nameless people. Now Rachel was basically telling her: Good news! Not only is your dad being held ransom by a cannibal giant, you also get to betray 
the guy you like! How awesome is that? 

“Hey,” Rachel said. “No need to cry. Ydu’II figure it out.” 

Piper wiped her eyes, trying to get control of herself. This wasn’t like her. She was supposed to be tough — a hardened car thief, the scourge of L.A. 
private schools. Here she was, crying like a baby. “How can you know what I’m facing?” 

Rachel shrugged. “I know it’s a hard choice, and your options aren’t great. Like I said, I get hunches sometimes. 

But you’re going to be claimed at the campfire. I’m almost sure. When you know who your godly parent is, things might be clearer.” 

Clearer, Piper thought. Not necessarily better. 

She sat up in bed. Her forehead ached like someone had driven a spike between her eyes. There’s no getting your mother back, her dad had told 
her. But apparently, tonight, her mom might claim her. For the first time, Piper wasn’t sure she wanted that. 

“I hope it’s Athena.” She looked up, afraid Rachel might make fun of her, but the oracle just smiled. 

“Piper, I don’t blame you. Truthfully? I think Annabeth is hoping that too. \bu guys are a lot alike.” 

The comparison made Piper feel even guiltier. “Another hunch? You don't know anything about me.” 

“Ntiu’d be surprised.” 

“Ntiu’re just saying that because you’re an oracle, aren’t you? \bu’re supposed to sound all mysterious.” 

Rachel laughed. “Don’t be giving away my secrets, Piper. And don’t worry. Things will work out — just maybe not the way you plan.” 

“That’s not making me feel better.” 

Somewhere in the distance, a conch horn blew. Argus grumbled and opened the door. 

“Dinner?” Piper guessed. 

“Nt>u slept through it,” Rachel said. “Time for the campfire. Let’s go find out who you are.” 




X 



PIPER 

Thewholecawiprreideafreaked Piper out It made herthink of that huge purple bonfire in the dreams, and her father tied to a stake. 

What she got instead was almost as terrifying: a sing-along. The amphitheater steps were carved into the side of a hill, facing a stone-lined fire pit. 
Fifty or sixty kids filled the rows, clustered into groups under various banners. 

Piper spotted Jason in the front next to Annabeth. Leo was nearby, sitting with a bunch of burly-looking campers under a steel gray banner 
emblazoned with a hammer. Standing in front of the fire, half a dozen campers with guitars and strange, old-fashioned harps — lyres? — were jumping 
around, leading a song about pieces of armor, something about how their grandma got dressed for war. Everybody was singing with them and making 
gestures for the pieces of armor and joking around. It was quite possibly the weirdest thing Piper had ever seen — one of those campfire songs that 
would’ve been completely embarrassing in daylight; but in the dark, with everybody participating, it was kind of corny and fun. As the energy level got 
higher, the flames did too, turning from red to orange to gold. 

Finally the song ended with a lot of rowdy applause. A guy on a horse trotted up. At least in the flickering light, Piper thought it was a guy on a horse. 
Then she realized it was a centaur — his bottom half a white stallion, his top half a middle-aged guy with curly hair and a trimmed beard. He brandished a 
spear impaled with toasted marshmallows. “Very nice! And a special welcome to our new arrivals. I am Chiron, camp activities director, and I’m happy 
you have all arrived here alive and with most of your limbs attached. In a moment, I promise we’ll get to the s’ mores, but first — ” 

“What about capture the flag?” somebody yelled. Grumbling broke out among some kids in armor, sitting under a red banner with the emblem of a 
boar’s head. 

“Yes,” the centaur said. “I know the Ares cabin is anxious to return to the woods for our regular games.” 

“And kill people!” one of them shouted. 

“However,” Chiron said, “until the dragon is brought under control, that won’t be possible. Cabin Nine, anything to report on that?” 

He turned to Leo’s group. Leo winked at Piper and shot her with a finger gun. The girl next to him stood uncomfortably. She wore an army jacket a lot 
like Leo’s, with her hair covered in a red bandanna. “We’re working on it.” 

More grumbling. 

“How, Nyssa?” an Ares kid demanded. 

“Really hard,” the girl said. 

Nyssa sat down to a lot of yelling and complaining, which caused the fire to sputter chaotically. Chiron stamped his hoof against the fire pit stones 
— bang, bang, bang — and the campers fell silent. 

“We will have to be patient,” Chiron said. “In the meantime, we have more pressing matters to discuss.” 

“Percy?” someone asked. The fire dimmed even further, but Piper didn’t need the mood flames to sense the crowd’s anxiety. 

Chiron gestured to Annabeth. She took a deep breath and stood. 

“I didn’t find Percy,” she announced. Her voice caught a little when she said his name. “He wasn’t at the Grand Canyon like I thought. But we're not 
giving up. We’ve got teams everywhere. Grover, Tyson, Nico, the Hunters of Artemis — everyone’s out looking. We u/// find him. Chiron’s talking about 
something different. A new quest.” 

“It’s the Great Prophecy, isn’t it?” a girl called out. 

Everyone turned. The voice had come from a group in back, sitting under a rose-colored banner with a dove emblem. They’d been chatting among 
themselves and not paying much attention until their leader stood up: Drew. 

Everyone else looked surprised. Apparently Drew didn’t address the crowd very often. 

“Drew?” Annabeth said. “What do you mean?” 

“Well, come on." Drew spread her hands like the truth was obvious. “Olympus is closed. Percy’s disappeared. Hera sends you a vision and you 
come back with three new demigods in one day. I mean, something weird is going on. The Great Prophecy has started, right?” 

Piper whispered to Rachel, “What’s she talking about — the Great Prophecy?” 

Then she realized everyone else was looking at Rachel, too. 

“Well?” Drew called down. “You’re the oracle. Has it started or not?” 

Rachel’s eyes looked scary in the firelight. Piper was afraid she might clench up and start channeling a freaky peacock goddess again, but she 
stepped forward calmly and addressed the camp. 

“Yes,” she said. “The Great Prophecy has begun.” 

Pandemonium broke out. 

Piper caught Jason’s eye. He mouthed, You all right? She nodded and managed a smile, but then looked away. It was too painful seeing him and 
not being with him. 

When the talking finally subsided, Rachel took another step toward the audience, and fifty-plus demigods leaned away from her, as if one skinny 
redheaded mortal was more intimidating than all of them put together. 

“For those of you who have not heard it,” Rachel said, “the Great Prophecy was my first prediction. It arrived in August. It goes like this: 

“Seven half-bloods shall answer the call. To storm or fire the world must fall — ” 

Jason shot to his feet. His eyes looked wild, like he’d just been tasered. 

Even Rachel seemed caught offguard. “J-Jason?” she said. “What’s — ” 

“Ut cum spiritu postrema sacramentum dejuremus, ” he cha nted . “Et hostes ornamenta addent ad ianuam necem. ” 

An uneasy silence settled on the group. Piper could see from their faces that several of them were trying to translate the lines. She could tell it was 
Latin, but she wasn’t sure why her hopefully future boyfriend was suddenly chanting like a Catholic priest. 

“You just . . . finished the prophecy,” Rachel stammered. “ — An oath to keep with a final breath/And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death. How did 
you — ” 

“I know those lines.” Jason winced and put his hands to his temples. “I don’t know how, but I know/that prophecy.” 



“In Latin, no less,” Drew called out. “Handsome and smart.” 

There was some giggling from the Aphrodite cabin. God, what a bunch of losers, Piper thought. But it didn’t do much to break the tension. The 
campfire was burning a chaotic, nervous shade of green. 

Jason sat down, looking embarrassed, but Annabeth put a hand on his shoulder and muttered something reassuring. Piper felt a pang of jealousy. It 
should have been her next to him, comforting him. 

Rachel Dare still looked a little shaken. She glanced back at Chiron for guidance, but the centaur stood grim and silent, as if he were watching a play 
he couldn’t interrupt — a tragedy that ended with a lot of people dead onstage. 

“Well,” Rachel said, trying to regain her composure. “So, yeah, that’s the Great Prophecy. We hoped it might not happen for years, but I fear it’s 
starting now. I can’t give you proof. It’s just a feeling. And like Drew said, some weird stuff is happening. The seven demigods, whoever they are, have not 
been gathered yet. I get the feeling some are here tonight. Some are not here.” 

The campers began to stir and mutter, looking at each other nervously, until a drowsy voice in the crowd called out, “I’m here! Oh . . . were you calling 
roll?” 

“Go back to sleep, Clovis,” someone yelled, and a lot of people laughed. 

“Anyway,” Rachel continued, “we don’t know what the Great Prophecy means. We don’t know what challenge the demigods will face, but since the 
first Great Prophecy predicted the Titan War, we can guess the second Great Prophecy will predict something at least that bad.” 

“Or worse,” Chiron murmured. 

Maybe he didn’t mean everyone to overhear, but they did. The campfire immediately turned dark purple, the same color as Piper’s dream. 

“What we do know,” Rachel said, “is that the first phase has begun. A major problem has arisen, and we need a quest to solve it. Hera, the queen of 
the gods, has been taken.” 

Shocked silence. Then fifty demigods started talking at once. 

Chiron pounded his hoof again, but Rachel still had to wait before she could get back their attention. 

She told them about the incident on the Grand Canyon skywalk — how Gleeson Hedge had sacrificed himself when the storm spirits attacked, and the 
spirits had warned it was only the beginning. They apparently served some great mistress who would destroy all demigods. 

Then Rachel told them about Piper passing out in Hera’s cabin. Piper tried to keep a calm expression, even when she noticed Drew in the back row, 
pantomiming a faint, and her friends giggling. Finally Rachel told them about Jason’s vision in the living room of the Big House. The message Hera had 
delivered there was so similar that Piper got a chill. The only difference: Hera had warned Piper not to betray her: Bowto his will, and their king shall rise, 
dooming us all. Hera knew about the giant’s threat. But if that was true, why hadn’t she warned Jason, and exposed Piper as an enemy agent? 

“Jason,” Rachel said. “Urn ... do you remember your last name?” 

He looked self-conscious, but he shook his head. 

“We’ll just call you Jason, then,” Rachel said. “It’s clear Hera herself has issued you a quest.” 

Rachel paused, as if giving Jason a chance to protest his destiny. Everyone’s eyes were on him; there was so much pressure, Piper thought she 
would’ve buckled in his position. Nfet he looked brave and determined. He set his jaw and nodded. “I agree.” 

“Nt>u must save Hera to prevent a great evil,” Rachel continued. “Some sort of king from rising. For reasons we don’t yet understand, it must happen 
by the winter solstice, only four days from now.” 

“That’s the council day of the gods,” Annabeth said. “If the gods don’t already know Hera’s gone, they will definitely notice her absence by then. 
They’ll probably break outfighting, accusing each other of taking her. That’s what they usually do.” 

“The winter solstice,” Chiron spoke up, “is also the time of greatest darkness. The gods gather that day, as mortals always have, because there is 
strength in numbers. The solstice is a day when evil magic is strong. Ancient magic, older than the gods. It is a day when things ... stir.” 

The way he said it, stirring sounded absolutely sinister — like it should be a first-degree felony, not something you did to cookie dough. 

“Okay” Annabeth said, glaring at the centaur. “Thank you, Captain Sunshine. Whatever’s going on, I agree with Rachel. Jason has been chosen to 
lead this quest, so — ” 

“Why hasn’t he been claimed?” somebody yelled from the Ares cabin. “If he’s so important — ” 

“He has been claimed,” Chiron announced. “Long ago. Jason, give them a demonstration.” 

At first, Jason didn’t seem to understand. He stepped forward nervously, but Piper couldn’t help thinking how amazing he looked with his blond hair 
glowing in the firelight, his regal features like a Roman statue’s. He glanced at Piper, and she nodded encouragingly. She mimicked flipping a coin. 

Jason reached into his pocket. His coin flashed in the air, and when he caught it in his hand, he was holding a lance — a rod of gold about seven feet 
long, with a spear tip at one end. 

The other demigods gasped. Rachel and Annabeth stepped back to avoid the point, which looked sharp as an ice pick. 

“Wasn’t that ...’’Annabeth hesitated. “I thought you had a sword." 

“Urn, it came up tails, I think,” Jason said. “Same coin, long-range weapon form.” 

“Dude, I want one!” yelled somebody from Ares cabin. 

“Better than Clarisse’s electric spear, Lamer!” one of his brothers agreed. 

“Electric,” Jason murmured, like that was a good idea. “Back away.” 

Annabeth and Rachel got the message. Jason raised his javelin, and thunder broke open the sky. Every hair on Piper’s arms stood straight up. 
Lightning arced down through the golden spear point and hit the campfire with the force of an artillery shell. 

When the smoke cleared, and the ringing in Piper’s ears subsided, the entire camp sat frozen in shock, half blind, covered in ashes, staring at the 
place where the fire had been. Cinders rained down everywhere. A burning log had impaled itself a few inches from the sleeping kid Clovis, who hadn’t 
even stirred. 

Jason lowered his lance. “Urn ... sorry.” 

Chiron brushed some burning coals out of his beard. He grimaced as if his worst fears had been confirmed. “A little overkill, perhaps, but you’ve 
made your point. And I believe we know who your father is.” 

“Jupiter,” Jason said. “I mean Zeus. Lord of the Sky.” 

Piper couldn’t help smiling. It made perfect sense. The most powerful god, the father of all the greatest heroes in the ancient myths — no one else 
could possibly be Jason’s dad. 

Apparently the rest of the camp wasn’t so sure. Everything broke into chaos, with dozens of people asking questions until Annabeth raised her arms. 
“Hold it!” she said. “How can he be the son of Zeus? The Big Three ... their pact not to have mortal kids ... how could we not have known about him 
sooner?” 

Chiron didn't answer, but Piper got the feeling he knew. And the truth was not good. 

“The important thing,” Rachel said, “is that Jason’s here now. He has a quest to fulfill, which means he will need his own prophecy.” 

She closed her eyes and swooned. Two campers rushed forward and caught her. A third ran to the side of the amphitheater and grabbed a bronze 
three-legged stool, like they’d been trained for this duty. They eased Rachel onto the stool in front of the ruined hearth. Without the fire, the night was dark, 




but green mist started swirling around Rachel’s feet. When she opened her eyes, they were glowing. Emerald smoke issued from her mouth. The voice 
that came out was raspy and ancient — the sound a snake would make if it could talk: 

“Child of lightning, beware the earth, The giants’ revenge the seven shall birth, The forge and dove shall break the cage, And death unleash 
through Hera’s rage.” 

On the last word, Rachel collapsed, but her helpers were waiting to catch her. They carried her away from the hearth and laid her in the corner to rest. 

“Is that normal?” Piper asked. Then she realized she’d spoken into the silence, and everyone was looking at her. “I mean... does she spew green 
smoke a lot?” 

“Gods, you’re dense!” Drew sneered. “She just issued a prophecy — Jason's prophecy to save Hera! Why don’t you just — ” 

“Drew,” Annabeth snapped. “Piper asked a fair question. Something about that prophecy definitely isn’t normal. If breaking Hera’s cage unleashes 
her rage and causes a bunch of death ... why would we free her? It might be a trap, or — or maybe Hera will turn on her rescuers. She’s never been kind to 
heroes.” 

Jason rose. “I don’t have much choice. Hera took my memory. I need it back. Besides, we can’t just not help the queen of the heavens if she’s in 
trouble.” 

A girl from Hephaestus cabin stood up — Nyssa, the one with the red bandanna. “Maybe. But you should listen to Annabeth. Hera can be vengeful. 
She threw her own son — our dad — down a mountain just because he was ugly.” 

“Real ugly,” snickered someone from Aphrodite. 

“Shut up!” Nyssa growled. “Anyway, we’ve also got to think — why beware the earth? And what’s the giants’ revenge? What are we dealing with here 
that’s powerful enough to kidnap the queen of the heavens?” 

No one answered, but Piper noticed Annabeth and Chiron having a silent exchange. Piper thought it went something like: 

Annabeth: The giants’ revenge ...no, it cant be. 

Chiron: Dont speak of it here. Dont scare them. 

Annabeth: You’re kidding me! We cant be that unlucky. 

Chiron: Later, child. If you told them everything, they would be too terrified to proceed. 

Piper knew it was crazy to think she could read their expressions so well — two people she barely knew. But she was absolutely positive she 
understood them, and it scared the jujubes out of her. 

Annabeth took a deep breath. “It’s Jason’s quest,” she announced, “so it’s Jason’s choice. Obviously, he’s the child of lightning. According to 
tradition, he may choose any two companions.” 

Someone from the Hermes cabin yelled, “Well, you, obviously, Annabeth. You’ve got the most experience.” 

“No, Travis,” Annabeth said. “First off, I’m not helping Hera. Every time I’ve tried, she’s deceived me, or it’s come back to bite me later. Forget it. No 
way. Secondly I’m leaving first thing in the morning to find Percy.” 

“It’s connected,” Piper blurted out, not sure how she got the courage. “Nt>u know that’s true, don’t you? This whole business, your boyfriend’s 
disappearance — it’s all connected.” 

“How?” demanded Drew. “If you’re so smart, how?” 

Piper tried to form an answer, but she couldn’t. 

Annabeth saved her. “>bu may be right, Piper. If this is connected, I'll find out from the other end — by searching for Percy. As I said, I’m not about to 
rush off to rescue Hera, even if her disappearance sets the rest of the Olympians fighting again. But there’s another reason I can't go. The prophecy says 
otherwise.” 

“It says who / pick,” Jason agreed. “The forge and dove shall break the cage. The forge is the symbol of Vul — Hephaestus.” 

Under the Cabin Nine banner, Nyssa’s shoulders slumped, like she’d just been given a heavy anvil to carry. “If you have to beware the earth,” she 
said, “you should avoid traveling overland. You’ll need airtransport.” 

Piper was about to call out that Jason could fly. But then she thought better of it. That was for Jason to tell them, and he wasn’t volunteering the 
information. Maybe he figured he’d freaked them out enough for one night. 

“The flying chariot’s broken,” Nyssa continued, “and the pegasi, we’re using them to search for Percy. But maybe Hephaestus cabin can help figure 
out something else to help. With Jake incapacitated, I’m senior camper. I can volunteer for the quest.” 

She didn’t sound enthusiastic. 

Then Leo stood up. He’d been so quiet, Piper had almost forgotten he was there, which was totally not like Leo. 

“It’s me,” he said. 

His cabinmates stirred. Several tried to pull him back to his seat, but Leo resisted. 

“No, it’s me. I know it is. I’ve got an idea for the transportation problem. Let me try. I can fix this!" 

Jason studied him for a moment. Piper was sure he was going to tell Leo no. Then he smiled. “We started this together, Leo. Seems only right you 
come along. \bu find us a ride, you’re in.” 

“Nfes!” Leo pumped his fist. 

“It’ll be dangerous,” Nyssa warned him. “Hardship, monsters, terrible suffering. Possibly none of you will come back alive.” 

“Oh.” Suddenly Leo didn’t look so excited. Then he remembered everyone was watching. “I mean ... Oh, cool! Suffering? I love suffering! Let’s do 
this.” 

Annabeth nodded. “Then, Jason, you only need to choose the third quest member. The dove — ” 

“Oh, absolutely!” Drew was on her feet and flashing Jason a smile. “The dove is Aphrodite. Everybody knows that. I am totally yours.” 

Piper’s hands clenched. She stepped forward. “No.” 

Drew rolled her eyes. “Oh, please, Dumpster girl. Back off.” 

“I had the vision of Hera; not you. I have to do this." 

“Anyone can have a vision,” Drew said. “You were just at the right place at the right time.” She turned to Jason. “Look, fighting is all fine, I suppose. 
And people who build things ...” She looked at Leo in disdain. “Well, I suppose someone has to get their hands dirty. But you need charm on your side. I 
can be very persuasive. I could help a lot.” 

The campers started murmuring about how Drew was pretty persuasive. Piper could see Drew winning them over. Even Chiron was scratching his 
beard, like Drew’s participation suddenly made sense to him. 

“Well ...’’Annabeth said. “Given the wording of the prophecy — ” 

“No!” Piper’s own voice sounded strange in her ears — more insistent, richer in tone. “I’m supposed to go.” 

Then the weirdest thing happened. Everyone started nodding, muttering that hmm, Piper’s point of view made sense too. Drew looked around, 




incredulous. Even some of her own campers were nodding. 

“Get over it!” Drew snapped at the crowd. “What can Piper do?” 

Piper tried to respond, but her confidence started to wane. What could she offer? She wasn’t a fighter, or a planner, or a fixer. She had no skills 
except getting into trouble and occasionally convincing people to do stupid things. 

Plus, she was a liar. She needed to go on this quest for reasons that went way beyond Jason — and if she did go, she’d end up betraying everyone 
there. She heard that voice from the dream: Do our bidding, and you may walk away alive. How could she make a choice like that — between helping her 
father and helping Jason? 

“Well,” Drew said smugly, “I guess that settles it.” 

Suddenly there was collective gasp. Everyone stared at Piper like she’d just exploded. She wondered what she’d done wrong. Then she realized 
there was a reddish glow around her. 

“What?” she demanded. 

She looked above her, but there was no burning symbol like the one that appeared over Leo. Then she looked down and yelped. 

Her clothes ... what in the world was she wearing ? She despised dresses. She didn’t own a dress. But now she was adorned in a beautiful white 
sleeveless gown that went down to her ankles, with a V-neck so low it was totally embarrassing. Delicate gold armbands circled her biceps. An intricate 
necklace of amber, coral, and gold flowers glittered on her chest, and her hair ... 

“Oh, god,” she said. “What’s happened?” 

A stunned Annabeth pointed at Piper's dagger, which was now oiled and gleaming, hanging at her side on a golden cord. Piper didn’t want to draw 
it. She was afraid of what she would see. But her curiosity won out. She unsheathed Katoptris and stared at her reflection in the polished metal blade. Her 
hair was perfect: lush and long and chocolate brown, braided with gold ribbons down one side so it fell across her shoulder. She even wore makeup, 
better than Piper would ever know how to do herself — subtle touches that made her lips cherry red and brought out all the different colors in her eyes. 

She was. ..she was... 

“Beautiful,” Jason exclaimed. “Piper, you ... you’re a knockout.” 

Under different circumstances, that would’ve been the happiest moment of her life. But now everyone was staring at her like she was a freak. Drew’s 
face was full of horror and revulsion. “No!” she cried. “Not possible!” 

“This isn’t me,” Piper protested. “I — don’t understand.” 

Chiron the centaur folded his front legs and bowed to her, and all the campers followed his example. 

“Hail, Piper McLean,” Chiron announced gravely, as if he were speaking at her funeral. “Daughter of Aphrodite, lady of the doves, goddess of love.” 




X I 



LEO 

Leo didn’t stickaround after Piper turned beautiful. Sure, it was amazing and all — She’s got makeup! It’s a miracle! — but Leo had problems to deal with. 
He ducked out of the amphitheater and ran into the darkness, wondering what he’d gotten himself into. 

He’d stood up in front of a bunch of stronger, braver demigods and volunteered — volunteered — for a mission that would probably get him killed. 

He hadn’t mentioned seeing Tia Callida, his old babysitter, but as soon as he’d heard about Jason’s vision — the lady in the black dress and shawl 
— Leo knew it was the same woman. Tia Callida was Hera. His evil babysitter was the queen of the gods. Stuff like that could really deep-fry your brain. 

He trudged toward the woods and tried not to think about his childhood — all the messed-up things that had led to his mother’s death. But he couldn’t 
help it. 

★ ★ ★ 

The first time Tia Callida tried to kill him, he must’ve been about two. Tia Callida was looking after him while his mother was at the machine shop. She 
wasn’t really his aunt, of course — just one of the old women in the community, a generic tia who helped watch the kids. She smelled like a honey-baked 
ham, and always wore a widow’s dress with a black shawl. 

“Let’s set you down for a nap,” she said. “Let’s see if you are my brave little hero, eh?” 

Leo was sleepy. She nestled him into his blankets in a warm mound of red and yellow — pillows? The bed was like a cubbyhole in the wall, made of 
blackened bricks, with a metal slot over his head and a square hole far above, where he could see the stars. He remembered resting comfortably, 
grabbing at sparks like fireflies. He dozed, and dreamed of a boat made of fire, sailing through the cinders. He imagined himself on board, navigating the 
sky. Somewhere nearby, Tia Callida sat in her rocking chair — creak, creak, creak — and sang a lullaby. Even at two, Leo knew the difference between 
English and Spanish, and he remembered being puzzled because Tia Callida was singing in a language that was neither. 

Everything was fine until his mother came home. She screamed and raced over to snatch him up, yelling at Tia Callida, “How could you?” But the old 
lady had disappeared. 

Leo remembered looking over his mother’s shoulder at the flames curling around his blankets. Only years later had he realized he’d been sleeping in 
a blazing fireplace. 

The weirdest thing? Tia Callida hadn’t been arrested or even banished from their house. She appeared again several times over the next few years. 
Once when Leo was three, she let him play with knives. “You must learn your blades early,” she insisted, “if you are to be my hero someday.” Leo managed 
not to kill himself, but he got the feeling Tia Callida wouldn’t have cared one way or the other. 

When Leo was four, Tia found a rattlesnake for him in a nearby cow pasture. She gave him a stick and encouraged him to poke the animal. “Where is 
your bravery, little hero? Show me the Fates were right to choose you.” Leo stared down at those amber eyes, hearing the dry shh-shh-ssh of the snake’s 
rattle. He couldn’t bring himself to poke the snake. It didn’t seem fair. Apparently the snake felt the same way about biting a little kid. Leo could’ve sworn it 
looked at Tia Callida like, Are you nuts, lady? Then it disappeared into the tall grass. 

The last time she babysat him, Leo was five. She brought him a pack of crayons and a pad of paper. They sat together at the picnic table in back of 
the apartment complex, under an old pecan tree. While Tia Callida sang her strange songs, Leo drew a picture of the boat he’d seen in the flames, with 
colorful sails and rows of oars, a curved stern, and an awesome masthead. When he was almost done, about to sign his name the way he’d learned in 
kindergarten, a wind snatched the picture away. It flew into the sky and disappeared. 

Leo wanted to cry. He’d spent so much time on that picture — but Tia Callida just clucked with disappointment. 

“It isn’t time yet, little hero. Someday, you’ll have your quest. Ntiu’ll find your destiny, and your hard journey will finally make sense. But first you must 
face many sorrows. I regret that, but heroes cannot be shaped any other way. Now, make me a fire, eh? Warm these old bones.” 

A few minutes later, Leo’s mom came out and shrieked with horror. Tia Callida was gone, but Leo sat in the middle of a smoking fire. The pad of 
paper was reduced to ashes. Crayons had melted into a bubbling puddle of multicolored goo, and Leo’s hands were ablaze, slowly burning through the 
picnic table. For years afterward, people in the apartment complex would wonder how someone had seared the impressions of a five-year-old’s hands an 
inch deep into solid wood. 

Now Leo was sure that Tia Callida, his psychotic babysitter, had been Hera all along. That made her, what — his godly grandmother? His family was even 
more messed up than he realized. 

He wondered if his mother had known the truth. Leo remembered after that last visit, his mom took him inside and had a long talk with him, but he 
only understood some of it. 

“She can’t come back again.” His mom had a beautiful face with kind eyes, and curly dark hair, but she looked older than she was because of hard 
work. The lines around her eyes were deeply etched. Her hands were callused. She was the first person from their family to graduate from college. She 
had a degree in mechanical engineering and could design anything, fix anything, build anything. 

No one would hire her. No company would take her seriously, so she ended up in the machine shop, trying to make enough money to support the two 
of them. She always smelled of machine oil, and when she talked with Leo, she switched from Spanish to English constantly — using them like 
complementary tools. It took Leo years to realize that not everyone spoke that way. She’d even taught him Morse code as a kind of game, so they could 
tap messages to each other when they were in different rooms: I love you. You okay? Simple things like that. 

“I don’t care what Callida says,” his mom told him. “I don’t care about destiny and the Fates. You’re too young for that. Nfou’re still my baby.” 

She took his hands, looking for burn marks, but of course there weren’t any. “Leo, listen to me. Fire is a tool, like anything else, but it’s more 
dangerous than most. You don’t know your limits. Please, promise me — no more fire until you meet your father. Someday, mijo, you wll meet him. He’ll 
explain everything.” 

Leo had heard that since he could remember. Someday he would meet his dad. His mom wouldn’t answer any questions about him. Leo had never 
met him, never even seen pictures, but she talked like he’d just gone to the store for some milk and he’d be back any minute. Leo tried to believe her. 
Someday, everything would make sense. 

For the next couple of years, they were happy. Leo almost forgot about Tia Callida. He still dreamed of the flying boat, but the other strange events 
seemed like a dream too. 

It all came apart when he was eight. By then, he was spending every free hour at the shop with his mom. He knew howto use the machines. He could 



measure and do math better than most adults. He’d learned to think three-dimensionally, solving mechanical problems in his head the way his mom did. 

One night, they stayed late because his mom was finishing a drill bit design she hoped to patent. If she could sell the prototype, it might change their 
lives. She’d finally get a break. 

As she worked, Leo passed her supplies and told her corny jokes, trying to keep her spirits up. He loved it when he could make her laugh. She’d 
smile and say, “Nt>ur father would be proud of you, mijo. \t>u’ll meet him soon, I’m sure.” 

Mom's workspace was at the very back of the shop. It was kind of creepy at night, because they were the only ones there. Every sound echoed 
through the dark warehouse, but Leo didn’t mind as long as he was with his mom. If he did wander the shop, they could always keep in touch with Morse 
code taps. Whenever they were ready to leave, they had to walk through the entire shop, through the break room, and out to the parking lot, locking the 
doors behind them. 

That night after finishing up, they’d just gotten to the break room when his mom realized she didn’t have her keys. 

“That’s funny.” She frowned. “I know I had them. Wait here, mijo. I'll only be a minute.” 

She gave him one more smile — the last one he’d ever get — and she went back into the warehouse. 

She’d only been gone a few heartbeats when the interior door slammed shut. Then the exterior door locked itself. 

“Mom?” Leo’s heart pounded. Something heavy crashed inside the warehouse. He ran to the door, but no matter how hard he pulled or kicked, it 
wouldn’t open. “Mom!” Frantically, he tapped a message on the wall: You okay? 

“She can’t hear you,” a voice said. 

Leo turned and found himself facing a strange woman. At first he thought it was Tia Callida. She was wrapped in black robes, with a veil covering her 

face. 

“Tia?” he said. 

The woman chuckled, a slow gentle sound, as if she were half asleep. “I am not your guardian. Merely a family resemblance.” 

“What — what do you want? Where’s my mom?” 

“Ah ... loyal to your mother. How nice. But you see, I have children too ... and I understand you will fight them someday. When they try to wake me, you 
will prevent them. I cannot allow that.” 

“I don’t know you. I don’t want to fight anybody." 

She muttered like a sleepwalker in a trance, “A wise choice.” 

With a chill, Leo realized the woman was, in fact, asleep. Behind the veil, her eyes were closed. But even stranger: her clothes were not made of 
cloth. They were made of earth — dry black dirt, churning and shifting around her. Her pale, sleeping face was barely visible behind a curtain of dust, and 
he had the horrible sense that she’d had just risen from the grave. If the woman was asleep, Leo wanted her to stay that way. He knew that fully awake, 
she would be even more terrible. 

“I cannot destroy you yet,” the woman murmured. “The Fates will not allow it. But they not do protect your mother, and they cannot stop me from 
breaking your spirit. Remember this night, little hero, when they ask you to oppose me.” 

“Leave my mother alone!” Fear rose in his throat as the woman shuffled forward. She moved more like an avalanche than a person, a dark wall of 
earth shifting toward him. 

“How will you stop me?” she whispered. 

She walked straight through a table, the particles of her body reassembling on the other side. 

She loomed over Leo, and he knew she would pass right through him, too. He was the only thing between her and his mother. 

His hands caught fire. 

A sleepy smile spread across the woman’s face, as if she’d already won. Leo screamed with desperation. His vision turned red. Flames washed 
over the earthen woman, the walls, the locked doors. And Leo lost consciousness. 

When he woke, he was in an ambulance. 

The paramedic tried to be kind. She told him the warehouse had burned down. His mother hadn’t made it out. The paramedic said she was sorry, but 
Leo felt hollow. He’d lost control, just like his mother had warned. Her death was his fault. 

Soon the police came to get him, and they weren’t as nice. The fire had started in the break room, they said, right where Leo was standing. He’d 
survived by some miracle, but what kind of child locked the doors of his mother’s workplace, knowing she was inside, and started a fire? 

Later, his neighbors at the apartment complex told the police what a strange boy he was. They talked about the burned handprints on the picnic table. 
They’d always known something was wrong with Esperanza Valdez’s son. 

His relatives wouldn’t take him in. His Aunt Rosa called him a diablo and shouted at the social workers to take him away. So Leo went to his first 
foster home. A few days later, he ran away. Some foster homes lasted longer than others. He would joke around, make a few friends, pretend that nothing 
bothered him, but he always ended up running sooner or later. It was the only thing that made the pain better — feeling like he was moving, getting farther 
and farther away from the ashes of that machine shop. 

He’d promised himself he would never play with fire again. He hadn’t thought about Tia Callida, or the sleeping woman wrapped in earthen robes, for 
a long time. 

He was almost to the woods when he imagined Tia Callida’s voice: It wasnt your fault, little hero. Our enemy wakes. It’s time to stop running. 

“Hera,” Leo muttered, “you’re not even here, are you? \bu’re in a cage somewhere." 

There was no answer. 

But now, at least, Leo understood something. Hera had been watching him his entire life. Somehow, she’d known that one day she would need him. 
Maybe those Fates she mentioned could tell the future. Leo wasn’t sure. But he knew he was meant to go on this quest. Jason’s prophecy warned them to 
beware the earth, and Leo knew it had something to do with that sleeping woman in the shop, wrapped in robes of shifting dirt. 

Youll find your destiny, Tia Callida had promised, and your hard journey will finally make sense. 

Leo might find out what that flying boat in his dreams meant. He might meet his father, or even get to avenge his mother’s death. 

But first things first. He’d promised Jason a flying ride. 

Not the boat from his dreams — not yet. There wasn’t time to build something that complicated. He needed a quicker solution. He needed a dragon. 

He hesitated at the edge of the woods, peering into absolute blackness. Owls hooted, and something far away hissed like a chorus of snakes. 

Leo remembered what Will Solace had told him: No one should go in the woods alone, definitely not unarmed. Leo had nothing — no sword, no 
flashlight, no help. 

He glanced back at the lights of the cabins. He could turn around now and tell everyone he’d been joking. Psych! Nyssa could go on the quest 
instead. He could stay at camp and learn to be part of the Hephaestus cabin, but he wondered how long it would be before he looked like his bunkmates 
— sad, dejected, convinced of his own bad luck. 

They cannot stop me from breaking your spirit, the sleeping woman had said. Remember this night, little hero, when they ask you to oppose me. 




“Believe me, lady,” Leo muttered, “I remember. And whoever you are, I’m gonna face-plant you hard, Leo-style.” 
He took a deep breath and plunged into the forest. 




X 1 I 



LEO 

The WOODS WEREN’T like anyplace he’d been before. Leo had been raised in a north Houston apartment complex. The wildest things he’d ever seen were 
that rattlesnake in the cow pasture and his Aunt Rosa in her nightgown, until he was sent to Wilderness School. 

Even there, the school had been in the desert. No trees with gnarled roots to trip over. No streams to fall into. No branches casting dark, creepy 
shadows and owls looking down at him with their big reflective eyes. This was the Twilight Zone. 

He stumbled along until he was sure no one back at the cabins could possibly see him. Then he summoned fire. Flames danced along his fingertips, 
casting enough light to see. He hadn’t tried to keep a sustained burn going since he was five, at that picnic table. Since his mom’s death, he’d been too 
afraid to try anything. Even this tiny fire made him feel guilty. 

He kept walking, looking for dragon-type clues — giant footprints, trampled trees, swaths of burning forest. Something that big couldn’t exactly sneak 
around, right? But he saw nada. Once he glimpsed a large, furry shape like a wolf or a bear, but it stayed away from his fire, which was fine by Leo. 

Then, at the bottom of a clearing, he saw the first trap — a hundred-foot-wide crater ringed with boulders. 

Leo had to admit it was pretty ingenious. In the center of the depression, a metal vat the size of a hot tub had been filled with bubbly dark liquid 
— Tabasco sauce and motor oil. On a pedestal suspended over the vat, an electric fan rotated in a circle, spreading the fumes across the forest. Could 
metal dragons smell? 

The vat seemed to be unguarded. But Leo looked closely, and in the dim light of the stars and his handheld fire, he could see the glint of metal 
beneath the dirt and leaves — a bronze net lining the entire crater. Or maybe see wasn’t the right word — he could sense it there, as if the mechanism was 
emitting heat, revealing itself to him. Six large strips of bronze stretched out from the vat like the spokes of a wheel. They would be pressure sensitive, 
Leo guessed. As soon as the dragon stepped on one, the net would spring closed, and voila — one gift-wrapped monster. 

Leo edged closer. He put his foot on the nearest trigger strip. As he expected, nothing happened. They had to have set the net for something really 
heavy. Otherwise they could catch an animal, human, smaller monster, whatever. He doubted there was anything else as heavy as a metal dragon in these 
woods. At least, he hoped there wasn’t. 

He picked his way down the crater and approached the vat. The fumes were almost overpowering, and his eyes started watering. He remembered a 
time when Tia Callida (Hera, whatever) had made him chop jalapenos in the kitchen and he’d gotten the juice in his eyes. Serious pain. But of course 
she’d been like, “Endure it, little hero. The Aztecs of your mother’s homeland used to punish bad children by holding them over a fire filled with chili 
peppers. They raised many heroes that way." 

A total psycho, that lady. Leo was so glad he was on a quest to rescue her. 

Tia Callida would’ve loved this vat, because it was way worse than jalapeno juice. Leo looked fora trigger — something that would disable the net. He 
didn’t see anything. 

He had a moment of panic. Nyssa had said there were several traps like this in the woods, and they were planning more. What if the dragon had 
already stepped into another one? How could Leo possibly find them all? 

He continued to search, but he didn’t see any release mechanism. No large button labeled off. It occurred to him that there might not be one. He 
started to despair — and then he heard the sound. 

It was more of a tremor — the deep sort of rumbling you hear in your gut rather than your ears. It gave him the jitters, but he didn’t look around for the 
source. He just kept examining the trap, thinking, Must be a long my off. It’s pounding its my through the mods. I gotta hurry. 

Then he heard a grinding snort, like steam forced out of a metal barrel. 

His neck tingled. He turned slowly. At the edge of the pit, fifty feet away, two glowing red eyes were staring at him. The creature gleamed in the 
moonlight, and Leo couldn’t believe something that huge had sneaked up on him so fast. Too late, he realized its gaze was fixed on the fire in his hand, 
and he extinguished the flames. 

He could still see the dragon just fine. It was about sixty feet long, snout to tail, its body made of interlocking bronze plates. Its claws were the size of 
butcher knives, and its mouth was lined with hundreds of dagger-sharp metal teeth. Steam came out of its nostrils. It snarled like a chain saw cutting 
through a tree. It could’ve bitten Leo in half, easy, or stomped him flat. It was the most beautiful thing he’d ever seen, except for one problem that 
completely ruined Leo’s plan. 

“Nbu don’t have wings,” Leo said. 

The dragon's snarl died. It tilted its head as if to say, Why aren't you running amy in terror? 

“Hey, no offense,” Leo said. “You’re amazing! Good god, who made you? Are you hydraulic or nuclear-powered or what? But if it was me, I would’ve 
put wings on you. What kind of dragon doesn’t have wings? I guess maybe you’re too heavy to fly? I should’ve thought of that.” 

The dragon snorted, more confused now. It was supposed to trample Leo. This conversation thing wasn’t part of the plan. It took a step forward, and 
Leo shouted, “No!” 

The dragon snarled again. 

“It’s a trap, bronze brain,” Leo said. “They’re trying to catch you." 

The dragon opened its mouth and blew fire. A column of white-hot flames billowed over Leo, more than he’d ever tried to endure before. He felt as if 
he were being hosed down with a powerful, very hot fire hose. It stung a little, but he stood his ground. When the flames died, he was perfectly fine. Even 
his clothes were okay, which Leo didn’t understand, but for which he was grateful. He liked his army jacket, and having his pants seared off would've been 
pretty embarrassing. 

The dragon stared at Leo. Its face didn’t actually change, being made of metal and all, but Leo thought he could read its expression: Why no crispy 
critter? A spark flew out of its neck like it was about to short-circuit. 

“Nt>u can’t burn me,” Leo said, trying to sound stern and calm. He’d never had a dog before, but he talked to the dragon the way he thought you’d talk 
to a dog. “Stay, boy. Don’t come any closer. I don’t want you to get caught. See, they think you’re broken and have to be scrapped. But I don’t believe that. 

I can fix you if you’ll let me — ” 

The dragon creaked, roared, and charged. The trap sprang. The floor of the crater erupted with a sound like a thousand trash can lids banging 
together. Dirt and leaves flew, metal net flashing. Leo was knocked off his feet, turned upside down, and doused in Tabasco sauce and oil. He found 
himself sandwiched between the vat and the dragon as it thrashed, trying to free itself from the net that had wrapped around them both. 

The dragon blew flames in every direction, lighting up the sky and setting trees on fire. Oil and sauce burned all over them. It didn’t hurt Leo, but it left 



a nasty taste in his mouth. 

“Will you stop that!” he yelled. 

The dragon kept squirming. Leo realized he would get crushed if he didn't move. It wasn't easy, but he managed to wriggle out from between the 
dragon and the vat. He squirmed his way through the net. Fortunately the holes were plenty big enough for a skinny kid. 

He ran to the dragon’s head. It tried to snap at him, but its teeth were tangled in the mesh. It blew fire again, but seemed to be running out of energy. 
This time the flames were only orange. They sputtered before they even reached Leo’s face. 

“Listen, man,” Leo said, “you’re just going to show them where you are. Then they’ll come and break out the acid and the metal cutters. Is that what 
you want?” 

The dragon’s jaw made a creaking sound, like it was trying to talk. 

“Okay, then,” Leo said. “You’ll have to trust me.” 

And Leo set to work. 

It took him almost an hour to find the control panel. It was right behind the dragon’s head, which made sense. He’d elected to keep the dragon in the net, 
because it was easier to work with the dragon constrained, but the dragon didn't like it. 

“Hold still!” Leo scolded. 

The dragon made another creaking sound that might’ve been a whimper. 

Leo examined the wires inside the dragon’s head. He was distracted by a sound in the woods, but when he looked up it was just a tree spirit — a 
dryad, Leo thought they were called — putting out the flames in her branches. Fortunately, the dragon hadn’t started an all-out forest fire, but still the dryad 
wasn’t too pleased. The girl's dress was smoking. She smothered the flames with a silky blanket, and when she saw Leo looking at her, she made a 
gesture that was probably very rude in Dryad. Then she disappeared in a green poof of mist. 

Leo returned his attention to the wiring. It was ingenious, definitely, and it made sense to him. This was the motor control relay. This processed 
sensory input from the eyes. This disk ... 

“Ha,” he said. “Well, no wonder.” 

Creak? the dragon asked with its jaw. 

“Ntiu’ve got a corroded control disk. Probably regulates your higher reasoning circuits, right? Rusty brain, man. No wonder you’re a little ... confused.” 
He almost said crazy, but he caught himself. “I wish I had a replacement disk, but ...this is a complicated piece of circuitry. I’m gonna have to take it out 
and clean it. Only be a minute.” He pulled out the disk, and the dragon went absolutely still. The glow died in its eyes. Leo slid off its back and began 
polishing the disk. He mopped up some oil and Tabasco sauce with his sleeve, which helped cut through the grime, but the more he cleaned, the more 
concerned he got. Some of the circuits were beyond repair. He could make it better, but not perfect. For that, he’d need a completely new disk, and he 
had no idea how to build one. 

He tried to work quickly. He wasn’t sure how long the dragon’s control disk could be off without damaging it — maybe forever — but he didn’t want to 
take chances. Once he’d done the best he could, he climbed back up to the dragon’s head and started cleaning the wiring and gearboxes, getting himself 
filthy in the process. 

“Clean hands, dirty equipment,” he muttered, something his mother used to say. By the time he was through, his hands were black with grease and 
his clothes looked like he’d just lost a mud-wrestling contest, but the mechanisms looked a lot better. He slipped in the disk, connected the last wire, and 
sparks flew. The dragon shuddered. Its eyes began to glow. 

“Better?” Leo asked. 

The dragon made a sound like a high-speed drill. It opened its mouth and all its teeth rotated. 

“I guess that’s a yes. Hold on, I'll free you.” 

Another thirty minutes to find the release clamps for the net and untangle the dragon, but finally it stood and shook the last bit of netting off its back. It 
roared triumphantly and shot fire at the sky. 

“Seriously,” Leo said. “Could you not show off?” 

Creak? the dragon asked. 

“Nt>u need a name,” Leo decided. “I’m calling you Festus.” 

The dragon whirred its teeth and grinned. At least Leo hoped it was a grin. 

“Cool,” Leo said. “But we still have a problem, because you don’t have wings.” 

Festus tilted his head and snorted steam. Then he lowered his back in an unmistakable gesture. He wanted Leo to climb on. 

“Where we going?” Leo asked. 

But he was too excited to wait for an answer. He climbed onto the dragon’s back, and Festus bounded off into the woods. 

* * * 

Leo lost track of time and all sense of direction. It seemed impossible the woods could be so deep and wild, but the dragon traveled until the trees were 
like skyscrapers and the canopy of leaves completely blotted out the stars. Even the fire in Leo’s hand couldn’t have lit the way, but the dragon’s glowing 
red eyes acted like headlights. 

Finally they crossed a stream and came to a dead end, a limestone cliff a hundred feet tall — a solid, sheer mass the dragon couldn’t possibly climb. 

Festus stopped at the base and lifted one leg like a dog pointing. 

“What is it?” Leo slid to the ground. He walked up to the cliff — nothing but solid rock. The dragon kept pointing. 

“It’s not going to move out of your way,” Leo told him. 

The loose wire in the dragon’s neck sparked, but otherwise he stayed still. Leo put his hand on the cliff. Suddenly his fingers smoldered. Lines of fire 
spread from his fingertips like ignited gunpowder, sizzling across the limestone. The burning lines raced across the cliff face until they had outlined a 
glowing red door five times as tall as Leo. He backed up and the door swung open, disturbingly silently for such a big slab of rock. 

“Perfectly balanced,” he muttered. “That’s some first-rate engineering." 

The dragon unfroze and marched inside, as if he were coming home. 

Leo stepped through, and the door began to close. He had a moment of panic, remembering that night in the machine shop long ago, when he’d 
been locked in. What if he got stuck in here? But then lights flickered on — a combination of electric fluorescents and wall-mounted torches. When Leo saw 
the cavern, he forgot about leaving. 

“Festus,” he muttered. “What is this place?” 

The dragon stomped to the center of the room, leaving tracks in the thick dust, and curled up on a large circular platform. 

The cave was the size of an airplane hangar, with endless worktables and storage cages, rows of garage-sized doors along either wall, and 
staircases that led up to a network of catwalks high above. Equipment was everywhere — hydraulic lifts, welding torches, hazard suits, air-spades, forklifts, 
plus something that looked suspiciously like a nuclear reaction chamber. Bulletin boards were covered with tattered, faded blueprints. And weapons, 




armor, shields — war supplies all over the place, a lot of them only partially finished. 

Hanging from chains far above the dragon’s platform was an old tattered banner almost too faded to read. The letters were Greek, but Leo somehow 
knew what they said: bunker 9. 

Did that mean nine as in the Hephaestus cabin, or nine as in there were eight others? Leo looked at Festus, still curled up on the platform, and it 
occurred to him that the dragon looked so content because it was home. It had probably been built on that pad. 

“Do the other kids know ... ?” Leo’s question died as he asked it. Clearly, this place had been abandoned for decades. Cobwebs and dust covered 
everything. The floor revealed no footprints except for his, and the huge paw prints of the dragon. He was the first one in this bunker since ... since a long 
time ago. Bunker 9 had been abandoned with a lot of projects half finished on the tables. Locked up and forgotten, but why? 

Leo looked at a map on the wall — a battle map of camp, but the paper was as cracked and yellow as onionskin. A date at the bottom read, 1864. 

“No way,” he muttered. 

Then he spotted a blueprint on a nearby bulletin board, and his heart almost leaped out of his throat. He ran to the worktable and stared up at a white- 
line drawing almost faded beyond recognition: a Greek ship from several different angles. Faintly scrawled words underneath it read: prophecy? unclear, 
flight? 

It was the ship he’d seen in his dreams — the flying ship. Someone had tried to build it here, or at least sketched out the idea. Then it was left, 
forgotten ... a prophecy yet to come. And weirdest of all, the ship’s masthead was exactly like the one Leo had drawn when he was five — the head of a 
dragon. “Looks like you, Festus,” he murmured. “That’s creepy.” 

The masthead gave him an uneasy feeling, but Leo’s mind spun with too many other questions to think about it for long. He touched the blueprint, 
hoping he could take it down to study, but the paper crackled at his touch, so he left it alone. He looked around for other clues. No boats. No pieces that 
looked like parts of this project, but there were so many doors and storerooms to explore. 

Festus snorted like he was trying to get Leo’s attention, reminding him they didn’t have all night. It was true. Leo figured it would be morning in a few 
hours, and he’d gotten completely sidetracked. He’d saved the dragon, but it wasn’t going to help him on the quest. He needed something that would fly. 

Festus nudged something toward him — a leather tool belt that had been left next to his construction pad. Then the dragon switched on his glowing 
red eye beams and turned them toward the ceiling. Leo looked up to where the spotlights were pointing, and yelped when he recognized the shapes 
hanging above them in the darkness. 

“Festus,” he said in a small voice. “We've got work to do.” 




XIII 



JASON 



Jason dreamed of wolves. 

He stood in a clearing in the middle of a redwood forest. In front of him rose the ruins of a stone mansion. Low gray clouds blended with the ground 
fog, and cold rain hung in the air. A pack of large gray beasts milled around him, brushing against his legs, snarling and baring their teeth. They gently 
nudged him toward the ruins. 

Jason had no desire to become the world’s largest dog biscuit, so he decided to do what they wanted. 

The ground squelched under his boots as he walked. Stone spires of chimneys, no longer attached to anything, rose up like totem poles. The house 
must’ve been enormous once, multi-storied with massive log walls and a soaring gabled roof, but now nothing remained but its stone skeleton. Jason 
passed under a crumbling doorway and found himself in a kind of courtyard. 

Before him was a drained reflecting pool, long and rectangular. Jason couldn’t tell how deep it was, because the bottom was filled with mist. A dirt 
path led all the way around, and the house’s uneven walls rose on either side. Wolves paced under the archways of rough red volcanic stone. 

At the far end of the pool sat a giant she-wolf, several feet taller than Jason. Her eyes glowed silver in the fog, and her coat was the same color as the 
rocks — warm chocolaty red. 

“I know this place,” Jason said. 

The wolf regarded him. She didn’t exactly speak, but Jason could understand her. The movements of her ears and whiskers, the flash of her eyes, the 
way she curled her lips — all of these were part of her language. 

Of course, the she-wolf said. You began your journey here as a pup. Nowyou must find your my back. A newquest, a newstart. 

“That isn’t fair," Jason said. But as soon as he spoke, he knew there was no point complaining to the she-wolf. 

Wolves didn’t feel sympathy. They never expected fairness. The wolf said: Conquer or die. This is always our way. 

Jason wanted to protest that he couldn't conquer if he didn’t know who he was, or where he was supposed to go. But he knew this wolf. Her name 
was simply Lupa, the Mother Wolf, the greatest of her kind. Long ago she’d found him in this place, protected him, nurtured him, chosen him, but if Jason 
showed weakness, she would tear him to shreds. Rather than being her pup, he would become her dinner. In the wolf pack, weakness was not an option. 

“Can you guide me?” Jason asked. 

Lupa made a rumbling noise deep in her throat, and the mist in the pool dissolved. 

At first Jason wasn’t sure what he was seeing. At opposite ends of the pool, two dark spires had erupted from the cement floor like the drill bits of 
some massive tunneling machines boring through the surface. Jason couldn’t tell if the spires were made of rock or petrified vines, but they were formed 
of thick tendrils that came together in a point at the top. Each spire was about five feet tall, but they weren’t identical. The one closest to Jason was darker 
and seemed like a solid mass, its tendrils fused together. As he watched, it pushed a little farther out of the earth and expanded a little wider. 

On Lupa’s end of the pool, the second spire’s tendrils were more open, like the bars of a cage. Inside, Jason could vaguely see a misty figure 
struggling, shifting within its confines. 

“Hera,” Jason said. 

The she-wolf growled in agreement. The other wolves circled the pool, their fur standing up on their backs as they snarled at the spires. 

The enemy has chosen this place to awaken her most powerful son, the giant king, Lupa said. Our sacred place, where demigods are claimed 
— the place of death or life. The burned house. The house of the wolf. It is an abomination. You must stop her. 

“Her?” Jason was confused. “You mean, Hera?” 

The she-wolf gnashed her teeth impatiently. Use your senses, pup. I care nothing for Juno, but if she falls, our enemy wakes. And that will be the 
end for all of us. You knowthis place. You can find it again. Cleanse our house. Stop this before it is too late. 

The dark spire grew slowly larger, like the bulb of some horrible flower. Jason sensed that if it ever opened, it would release something he did not 
want to meet. 

“Who am I?” Jason asked the she-wolf. “At least tell me that.” 

Wolves don’t have much of a sense of humor, but Jason could tell the question amused Lupa, as if Jason were a cub just trying out his claws, 
practicing to be the alpha male. 

You are our saving grace, as always. The she-wolf curled her lip, as if she had just made a clever joke. Do not fail, son of Jupiter. 



X I V 



JASON 

Jason woke to the sound of thunder Then he remembered where he was. It was always thundering in Cabin One. 

Above his cot, the domed ceiling was decorated with a blue-and-white mosaic like a cloudy sky. The cloud tiles shifted across the ceiling, changing 
from white to black. Thunder rumbled through the room, and gold tiles flashed like veins of lightning. 

Except for the cot that the other campers had brought him, the cabin had no regular furniture — no chairs, tables, or dressers. As far as Jason could 
tell, it didn’t even have a bathroom. The walls were carved with alcoves, each holding a bronze brazier or a golden eagle statue on a marble pedestal. In 
the center of the room, a twenty-foot-tall, full-color statue of Zeus in classic Greek robes stood with a shield at his side and a lightning bolt raised, ready to 
smite somebody. 

Jason studied the statue, looking for anything he had in common with the Lord of the Sky. Black hair? Nope. Grumbly expression? Well, maybe. 
Beard? No thanks. In his robes and sandals, Zeus looked like a really buff, really angry hippie. 

>feah, Cabin One. A big honor, the other campers had told him. Sure, if you liked sleeping in a cold temple by yourself with Hippie Zeus frowning 
down at you all night. 

Jason got up and rubbed his neck. His whole body was stifffrom bad sleep and summoning lightning. That little trick last night hadn't been as easy as 
he had let on. It had almost made him pass out. 

Next to the cot, new clothes were laid out for him: jeans, sneakers, and an orange Camp Half-Blood shirt. He definitely needed a change of clothes, 
but looking down at his tattered purple shirt, he was reluctant to change. It felt wrong somehow, putting on the camp shirt. He still couldn’t believe he 
belonged here, despite everything they’d told him. 

He thought about his dream, hoping more memories would come back to him about Lupa, or that ruined house in the redwoods. He knew he’d been 
there before. The wolf was real. But his head ached when he tried to remember. The marks on his forearm seemed to burn. 

If he could find those ruins, he could find his past. Whatever was growing inside that rock spire, Jason had to stop it. 

He looked at Hippie Zeus. “You’re welcome to help.’’ 

The statue said nothing. 

“Thanks, Pops,” Jason muttered. 

He changed clothes and checked his reflection in Zeus’s shield. His face looked watery and strange in the metal, like he was dissolving in a pool of 
gold. Definitely he didn’t look as good as Piper had last night after she’d suddenly been transformed. 

Jason still wasn’t sure how he felt about that. He'd acted like an idiot, announcing in front of everyone that she was a knockout. Not like there’d been 
anything wrong with her before. Sure, she looked great after Aphrodite zapped her, but she also didn't look like herself, not comfortable with the attention. 

Jason had felt bad for her. Maybe that was crazy, considering she’d just been claimed by a goddess and turned into the most gorgeous girl at camp. 
Everybody had started fawning over her, telling her how amazing she was and how obviously she should be the one who went on the quest — but that 
attention had nothing to do with who she was. New dress, new makeup, glowing pink aura, and boom: suddenly people liked her. Jason felt like he 
understood that. 

Last night when he’d called down lightning, the other campers’ reactions had seemed familiar to him. He was pretty sure he’d been dealing with that 
for a long time — people looking at him in awe just because he was the son of Zeus, treating him special, but it didn’t have anything to do with him. Nobody 
cared about him, just his big scary daddy standing behind him with the doomsday bolt, as if to say, Respect this kid or eat voltage! 

After the campfire, when people started heading back to their cabins, Jason had gone up to Piper and formally asked her to come with him on the 
quest. 

She’d still been in a state of shock, but she nodded, rubbing her arms, which must’ve been cold in that sleeveless dress. 

“Aphrodite took my snowboarding jacket,” she muttered. “Mugged by my own mom.” 

In the first row of the amphitheater, Jason found a blanket and wrapped it around her shoulders. “We’ll get you a new jacket,” he promised. 

She managed a smile. He wanted to wrap his arms around her, but he restrained himself. He didn’t want her to think he was as shallow as everyone 
else — trying to make a move on her because she’d turned all beautiful. 

He was glad Piper was going with him on the quest. Jason had tried to act brave at the campfire, but it was just that — an act. The idea of going up 
against an evil force powerful enough to kidnap Hera scared him witless, especially since he didn’t even know his own past. He’d need help, and it felt 
right: Piper should be with him. But things were already complicated without figuring out how much he liked her, and why. He’d already messed with her 
head enough. 

He slipped on his new shoes, ready to get out of that cold, empty cabin. Then he spotted something he hadn’t noticed the night before. A brazier had 
been moved out of one of the alcoves to create a sleeping niche, with a bedroll, a backpack, even some pictures taped to the wall. 

Jason walked over. Whoever had slept there, it had been a long time ago. The bedroll smelled musty. The backpack was covered with a thin film of 
dust. Some of the photos once taped to the wall had lost their stickiness and fallen to the floor. 

One picture showed Annabeth — much younger, maybe eight, but Jason could tell it was she: same blond hair and gray eyes, same distracted look 
like she was thinking a million things at once. She stood next to a sandy-haired guy about fourteen or fifteen, with a mischievous smile and ragged leather 
armor over a T-shirt. He was pointing to an alley behind them, like he was telling the photographer, Let’s go meet things in a dark alley and kill them! A 
second photo showed Annabeth and the same guy sitting at a campfire, laughing hysterically. 

Finally Jason picked up one of the photos that had fallen. It was a strip of pictures like you’d take in a do-it-yourself photo booth: Annabeth and the 
sandy-haired guy, but with another girl between them. She was maybe fifteen, with black hair — choppy like Piper’s — a black leather jacket, and silver 
jewelry, so she looked kind of goth; but she was caught mid-laugh, and it was clear she was with her two best friends. 

“That’s Thalia,” someone said. 

Jason turned. 

Annabeth was peering over his shoulder. Her expression was sad, like the picture bought back hard memories. “She’s the other child of Zeus who 
lived here — but not for long. Sorry, I should’ve knocked.” 

“It’s fine,” Jason said. “Not like I think of this place as home.” 

Annabeth was dressed for travel, with a winter coat over her camp clothes, her knife at her belt, and a backpack across her shoulder. 



Jason said, “Don’t suppose you’ve changed your mind about coming with us?” 

She shook her head. “\bu got a good team already. I’m off to look for Percy.” 

Jason was a little disappointed. He would’ve appreciated having somebody on the trip who knew what they were doing, so he wouldn’t feel like he 
was leading Piper and Leo off a cliff. 

“Hey, you’ll do fine,” Annabeth promised. “Something tells me this isn’t your first quest.” 

Jason had a vague suspicion she was right, but that didn't make him feel any better. Everyone seemed to think he was so brave and confident, but 
they didn't see how lost he really felt. How could they trust him when he didn’t even know who he was? 

He looked at the pictures of Annabeth smiling. He wondered how long it had been since she’d smiled. She must really like this Percy guy to search 
for him so hard, and that made Jason a little envious. Was anyone searching for him right now? What if somebody cared for him that much and was going 
out of her mind with worry, and he couldn’t even remember his old life? 

“Nt>u know who lam,” he guessed. “Don’t you?” 

Annabeth gripped the hilt of her dagger. She looked for a chair to sit on, but of course there weren’t any. “Honestly, Jason ... I’m not sure. My best 
guess, you’re a loner. It happens sometimes. For one reason or another, the camp never found you, but you survived anyway by constantly moving around. 
Trained yourself to fight. Handled the monsters on your own. You beat the odds.” 

“The first thing Chiron said to me,” Jason remembered, “was you should be dead.” 

“That could be why,” Annabeth said. “Most demigods would never make it on their own. And a child of Zeus — I mean, it doesn't get any more 
dangerous than that. The chances of your reaching age fifteen without finding Camp Half-Blood or dying — microscopic. But like I said, it does happen. 
Thalia ran away when she was young. She survived on her own for years. Even took care of me for a while. So maybe you were a loner too.” 

Jason held out his arm. “And these marks?” 

Annabeth glanced at the tattoos. Clearly, they bothered her. “Well, the eagle is the symbol of Zeus, so that makes sense. The twelve lines — maybe 
they stand for years, if you’d been making them since you were three years old. SPQR — that’s the motto of the old Roman Empire: Senatus Populusque 
Romanus, the Senate and the People of Rome. Though why you would burn that on your own arm, I don’t know. Unless you had a really harsh Latin 
teacher ...” 

Jason was pretty sure that wasn’t the reason. It also didn’t seem possible he’d been on his own his whole life. But what else made sense? Annabeth 
had been pretty clear — Camp Half-Blood was the only safe place in the world for demigods. 

“I, urn ... had a weird dream last night,” he said. It seemed like a stupid thing to confide, but Annabeth didn’t look surprised. 

“Happens all the time to demigods,” she said. “What did you see?” 

He told her about the wolves and the ruined house and the two rock spires. As he talked, Annabeth started pacing, looking more and more agitated. 
“Nt>u don’t remember where this house is?” she asked. 

Jason shook his head. “But I’m sure I’ve been there before.” 

“Redwoods,” she mused. “Could be northern California. And the she-wolf ... I’ve studied goddesses, spirits, and monsters my whole life. I’ve never 
heard of Lupa.” 

“She said the enemy was a ‘her.’ I thought maybe it was Hera, but — ” 

“I wouldn’t trust Hera, but I don't think she’s the enemy. And that thing rising out of the earth — ” Annabeth’s expression darkened. “You’ve got to stop it. 

“Nt>u know what it is, don't you?” he asked. “Or at least, you’ve got a guess. I saw your face last night at the campfire. You looked at Chiron like it was 
suddenly dawning on you, but you didn’t want to scare us.” 

Annabeth hesitated. “Jason, the thing about prophecies ...the more you know, the more you try to change them, and that can be disastrous. Chiron 
believes it’s better that you find your own path, find out things in your own time. If he’d told me everything he knew before my first quest with Percy. . . I’ve 
qotto admit, I’m not sure I would’ve been able to go through with it. For your quest, it’s even more important.” 

“That bad, huh?” 

“Not if you succeed. At least ... I hope not.” 

“But I don't even know where to start. Where am I supposed to go?” 

“Follow the monsters,” Annabeth suggested. 

Jason thought about that. The storm spirit who’d attacked him at the Grand Canyon had said he was being recalled to his boss. If Jason could track 
the storm spirits, he might be able to find the person controlling them. And maybe that would lead him to Hera’s prison. 

“Okay,” he said. “How do I find storm winds?” 

“Personally, I’d ask a wind god,” Annabeth said. “Aeolus is the master of all the winds, but he’s a little ... unpredictable. No one finds him unless he 
wants to be found. I’d try one of the four seasonal wind gods that work for Aeolus. The nearest one, the one who has the most dealings with heroes, is 
Boreas, the North Wind.” 

“So if I looked him up on Google maps — ” 

“Oh, he’s not hard to find,” Annabeth promised. “He settled in North America like all the other gods. So of course he picked the oldest northern 
settlement, about as far north as you can go." 

“Maine?” Jason guessed. 

“Farther." 

Jason tried to envision a map. What was farther north than Maine? The oldest northern settlement . . . 

“Canada,” he decided. “Quebec.” 

Annabeth smiled. “I hope you speak French.” 

Jason actually felt a spark of excitement. Quebec — at least now he had a goal. Find the North Wind, track down the storm spirits, find out who they 
worked for and where that ruined house was. Free Hera. All in four days. Cake. 

“Thanks, Annabeth.” He looked at the photo booth pictures still in his hand. “So, urn ... you said it was dangerous being a child of Zeus. What ever 
happened to Thalia?” 

“Oh, she’s fine,” Annabeth said. “She became a Hunter of Artemis — one of the handmaidens of the goddess. They roam around the country killing 
monsters. We don’t see them at camp very often.” 

Jason glanced over at the huge statue of Zeus. He understood why Thalia had slept in this alcove. It was the only place in the cabin not in Hippie 
Zeus’s line of sight. And even that hadn’t been enough. She’d chosen to follow Artemis and be part of a group rather than stay in this cold drafty temple 
alone with her twenty-foot-tall dad — Jason’s dad — glowering down at her. Eat voltage! Jason didn’t have any trouble understanding Thalia’s feelings. He 
wondered if there was a Hunters group for guys. 

“Who’s the other kid in the photo?” he asked. “The sandy-haired guy.” 

Annabeth’s expression tightened. Touchy subject. 

“That’s Luke,” she said. “He’s dead now.” 




Jason decided it was best not to ask more, but the way Annabeth said Luke’s name, he wondered if maybe Percy Jackson wasn’t the only boy 
Annabeth had ever liked. 

He focused again on Thalia’s face. He kept thinking this photo of her was important. He was missing something. 

Jason felt a strange sense of connection to this other child of Zeus — someone who might understand his confusion, maybe even answer some 
questions. But another voice inside him, an insistent whisper, said: Dangerous. Stay away. 

“How old is she now?” he asked. 

“Hard to say. She was a tree for a while. Now she’s immortal.” 

“What?” 

His expression must’ve been pretty good, because Annabeth laughed. “Don’t worry. It’s not something all children of Zeus go through. It’s a long story, 
but . . . well, she was out of commission for a long time. If she’d aged regularly, she’d be in her twenties now, but she still looks the same as in that picture, 
like she’s about . . . well, about your age. Fifteen or sixteen?” 

Something the she-wolf had said in his dream nagged at Jason. He found himself asking, “What’s her last name?” 

Annabeth looked uneasy. “She didn’t use a last name, really. If she had to, she’d use her mom’s, but they didn’t get along. Thalia ran away when she 
was pretty young.” 

Jason waited. 

“Grace,” Annabeth said. “Thalia Grace.” 

Jason’s fingers went numb. The picture fluttered to the floor. 

“Nt>u okay?” Annabeth asked. 

A shred of memory had ignited — maybe a tiny piece that Hera had forgotten to steal. Or maybe she’d left it there on purpose — just enough for him to 
remember that name, and know that digging up his past was terribly, terribly dangerous. 

You should be dead, Chiron had said. It wasn’t a comment about Jason beating the odds as a loner. Chiron knew something specific — something 
about Jason’s family. 

The she-wolf 's words in his dream finally made sense to him, her clever joke at his expense. He could imagine Lupa growling a wolfish laugh. 

“What is it?” Annabeth pressed. 

Jason couldn’t keep this to himself. It would kill him, and he had to getAnnabeth’s help. If she knew Thalia, maybe she could advise him. 

“Nt>u have to swear not to tell anyone else,” he said. 

“Jason — ’’ 

“Swear it,” he urged. “Until I figure out what’s going on, what this all means — ” He rubbed the burned tattoos on his forearm. “You have to keep a 
secret.” 

Annabeth hesitated, but her curiosity won out. “All right. Until you tell me it’s okay, I won’t share what you say with anyone else. I swear on the River 
Styx.” 

Thunder rumbled, even louder than usual for the cabin. You are our saving Grace, the wolf had snarled. Jason picked up the photo from the floor. “My 
last name is Grace,” he said. “This is my sister.” Annabeth turned pale. Jason could see her wrestling with dismay, disbelief, anger. She thought he was 
lying. His claim was impossible. And part of him felt the same way, but as soon as he spoke the words, he knew they were true. 

Then the doors of the cabin burst open. Haifa dozen campers spilled in, led by the bald guy from Iris, Butch. “Hurry!” he said, and Jason couldn’t tell if 
his expression was excitement or fear. “The dragon is back.” 




X V 



PIPER 

Piper woke up and immediately grabbed a mirror. There were plenty of those in the Aphrodite cabin. She sat on her bunk, looked at her reflection and 
groaned. 

She was still gorgeous. 

Last night after the campfire, she’d tried everything. She messed up her hair, washed the makeup off her face, cried to make her eyes red. Nothing 
worked. Her hair popped back to perfection. The magic makeup reapplied itself. Her eyes refused to get puffy or bloodshot. 

She would’ve changed clothes, but she had nothing to change into. The other Aphrodite campers offered her some (laughing behind her back, she 
was sure), but each outfit was even more fashionable and ridiculous than what she had on. 

Now, after a horrible night’s sleep, still no change. Piper normally looked like a zombie in the morning, but her hair was styled like a supermodel’s 
and her skin was perfect. Even that horrible zit at the base other nose, which she’d had for so many days she’d started to call it Bob, had disappeared. 

She growled in frustration and raked her fingers through her hair. No use. The do just popped back into place. She looked like Cherokee Barbie. 

From across the cabin, Drew called, “Oh, honey, it won’t go away.’’ Her voice dripped with false sympathy. “Mom’s blessing will last at least another 
day. Maybe a week if you’re lucky.” 

Piper gritted her teeth. “A week?" 

The other Aphrodite kids — about dozen girls and five guys — smirked and snickered at her discomfort. Piper knew she should play cool, not let them 
get under her skin. She’d dealt with shallow, popular kids plenty of times. But this was different. These were her brothers and sisters, even if she had 
nothing in common with them, and how Aphrodite had managed to have so many kids so close in age ... Nevermind. She didn’t want to know. 

“Don’t worry, hon.” Drew blotted her fluorescent lipstick. “>bu’re thinking you don’t belong here? We couldn’t agree more. Isn’t that right, Mitchell ?” 

One of the guys flinched. “Urn, yeah. Sure.” 

“Mmm-hmm.” Drew took out her mascara and checked her lashes. Everyone else watched, not daring to speak. “So anyways, people, fifteen 
minutes until breakfast. The cabin’s not going to clean itself! And Mitchell, I think you’ve learned your lesson. Right, sweetie? So you’re on garbage patrol 
just for today, mm-kay? Show Piper how it’s done, ’cause I have a feeling she’ll have that job soon — /7she survives her quest. Now, get to work, 
everybody! It’s my bathroom time!” 

Everybody started rushing around, making beds and folding clothes, while Drew scooped up her makeup kit, hair dryer, and brush and marched into 
the bathroom. 

Someone inside yelped, and a girl about eleven was kicked out, hastily wrapped in towels with shampoo still in her hair. 

The door slammed shut, and the girl started to cry. A couple of older campers comforted her and wiped the bubbles out of her hair. 

“Seriously?” Piper said to no one in particular. “You let Drew treat you like this?” 

A few kids shot Piper nervous looks, like they might actually agree, but they said nothing. 

The campers kept working, though Piper couldn’t see why the cabin needed much cleaning. It was a life-size dollhouse, with pink walls and white 
window trim. The lace curtains were pastel blue and green, which of course matched the sheets and feather comforters on all the beds. 

The guys had one row of bunks separated by a curtain, but their section of the cabin was just as neat and orderly as the girls’. Something was 
definitely unnatural about that. Every camper had a wooden camp chest at the foot of their bunk with their name painted on it, and Piper guessed that the 
clothes in each chest were neatly folded and color coordinated. The only bit of individualism was how the campers decorated their private bunk spaces. 
Each had slightly different pictures tacked up of whatever celebrities they thought were hot. A few had personal photos, too, but most were actors or 
singers or whatever. 

Piper hoped she might not see The Poster. It had been almost a year since the movie, and she thought by now surely everyone had torn down those 
old tattered advertisements and tacked up something newer. But no such luck. She spotted one on the wall by the storage closet, in the middle of a 
collage of famous heartthrobs. 

The title was lurid red: king of sparta. Under that, the poster showed the leading man — a three-quarters shot of bare-chested bronze flesh, with 
ripped pectorals and six-pack abs. He was clad in only a Greek war kilt and a purple cape, sword in hand. He looked like he’d just been rubbed in oil, his 
short black hair gleaming and rivulets of sweat pouring off his rugged face, those dark sad eyes facing the camera as if to say, / will kill your men and 
steal your women! Ha-ha! 

It was the most ridiculous poster of all time. Piper and her dad had had a good laugh over it the first time they saw it. Then the movie made a bajillion 
dollars. The poster graphic popped up everywhere. Piper couldn’t get away from it at school, walking down the street, even online. It became The Poster, 
the most embarrassing thing in her life. And yeah, it was a picture of her dad. 

She turned away so no one would think she was staring at it. Maybe when everyone went to breakfast she could tear it down and they wouldn’t notice. 

She tried to look busy, but she didn’t have any extra clothes to fold. She straightened her bed, then realized the top blanket was the one Jason had 
wrapped around her shoulders last night. She picked it up and pressed it to her face. It smelled of wood smoke, but unfortunately not of Jason. He was the 
only person who’d been genuinely nice to her after the claiming, like he cared about how she felt, not just about her stupid new clothes. God, she’d 
wanted to kiss him, but he’d seemed so uncomfortable, almost scared of her. She couldn’t really blame him. She’d been glowing pink. 

“’Scuse me,” said a voice by her feet. The garbage patrol guy, Mitchell, was crawling around on all fours, picking up chocolate wrappers and 
crumpled notes from under the bunk beds. Apparently the Aphrodite kids weren’t one hundred percent neat freaks after all. 

She moved out of his way. “What’d you do to make Drew mad?" 

He glanced over at the bathroom door to make sure it was still closed. “Last night, after you were claimed, I said you might not be so bad.” 

It wasn’t much ofa compliment, butPiperwas stunned. An Aphrodite kid had actually stood up for her? 

“Thanks,” she said. 

Mitchell shrugged. “Yeah, well. See where it got me. But for what it’s worth, welcome to Cabin Ten.” 

A girl with blond pigtails and braces raced up with a pile of clothes in her arms. She looked around furtively like she was delivering nuclear materials. 

“I brought you these,” she whispered. 

“Piper, meet Lacy,” Mitchell said, still crawling around on the floor. 

“Hi,” Lacy said breathlessly. “You can change clothes. The blessing won’t stop you. This is just, you know, a backpack, some rations, ambrosia and 



nectar for emergencies, some jeans, a few extra shirts, and a warm jacket. The boots might be a little snug. But — well — we took up a collection. Good 
luck on your quest!” 

Lacy dumped the things on the bed and started to hurry away, but Piper caught her arm. “Hold on. At least let me thank you! Why are you rushing off?” 
Lacy looked like she might shake apart from nervousness. “Oh, well — ” 

“Drew might find out,” Mitchell explained. 

“I might have to wear the shoes of shame!” Lacy gulped. 

“The what?” Piper asked. 

Lacy and Mitchell both pointed to a black shelf mounted in the corner of the room, like an altar. Displayed on it were a hideous pair of orthopedic 
nurse’s shoes, bright white with thick soles. 

“I had to wearthem fora week once,” Lacy whimpered. “They don’t go with anything !” 

“And there’re worse punishments,” Mitchell warned. “Drew can charmspeak, see? Not many Aphrodite kids have that power; but if she tries hard 
enough, she can get you to do some pretty embarrassing things. Piper, you’re the first person I’ve seen in a long time who is able to resist her.” 

“Charmspeak ...” Piper remembered last night, the way the crowd at the campfire had swayed back and forth between Drew’s opinion and hers. 
“\bu mean, like, you could talk someone into doing things. Or ... giving you things. Like a car?” 

“Oh, don’t give Drew any ideas!” Lacy gasped. 

“But yeah,” Mitchell said. “She could do that.” 

“So that’s why she’s head counselor,” Piper said. “She convinced you all?” 

Mitchell picked a nasty wad of gum from under Piper’s bed. “Nah, she inherited the post when Silena Beauregard died in the war. Drew was second 
oldest. Oldest camper automatically gets the post, unless somebody with more years or more completed quests wants to challenge, in which case there’s 
a duel, but that hardly ever happens. Anyway, we’ve been stuck with Drew in charge since August. She decided to make some, ah, changes in the way 
the cabin is run.” 

“\fes, I did!” Suddenly Drew was there, leaning against the bunk. Lacy squeaked like a guinea pig and tried to run, but Drew put an arm out to stop 
her. She looked down at Mitchell. “I think you missed some trash, sweetie. Ntiu’d better make another pass.” 

Piper glanced toward the bathroom and saw that Drew had dumped everything from the bathroom waste bin — some pretty nasty things — all over the 

floor. 

Mitchell sat up on his haunches. He glared at Drew like he was about to attack (which Piper would’ve paid money to see), but finally he snapped, 
“Fine." 

Drew smiled. “See, Piper, hon, we’re a good cabin here. A good family! Silena Beauregard, though ... you could take a warning from her. She was 
secretly passing information to Kronos in the Titan War, helping the enemy." 

Drew smiled all sweet and innocent, with her glittery pink makeup and her blow-dried hair lush and smelling like nutmeg. She looked like any popular 
teenage girl from any high school. But her eyes were as cold as steel. Piper got the feeling Drew was looking straight into her soul, pulling out her secrets. 
Helping the enemy. 

“Oh, none of the other cabins talk about it,” Drew confided. “They act like Silena Beauregard was a hero.” 

“She sacrificed her life to make things right,” Mitchell grumbled. “She was a hero.” 

“Mmm-hmm,” Drew said. “Another day on garbage patrol, Mitchell. But anyways, Silena lost track of what this cabin is about. We match up cute 
couples at camp! Then we break them apart and start over! It’s the best fun ever. We don’t have any business getting involved in other stuff like wars and 
quests. / certainly haven’t been on any quests. They’re a waste of time!” 

Lacy raised her hand nervously. “But last night you said you wanted to go on a — ” 

Drew glared at her, and Lacy’s voice died. 

“Most of all,” Drew continued, “we certainly don’t need our image tarnished by spies, do we, Piped?” 

Piper tried to answer, but she couldn’t. There was no way Drew could know about her dreams or her dad’s kidnapping, was there? 

“It’s too bad you won’t be around,” Drew sighed. “But if you survive your little quest, don’t worry, I’ll find somebodyto match up with you. Maybe one of 
those gross Hephaestus guys. Or Clovis? He’s pretty repulsive.” Drew looked her over with a mix of pity and disgust. “Honestly, I didn’t think it was 
possible for Aphrodite to have an ugly child, but . . . who was your father? Was he some sort of mutant, or — ” 

“Tristan McLean,” Piper snapped. 

As soon as she said it, she hated herself. She never, ever played the “famous dad” card. But Drew had driven her over the edge. “My dad’s Tristan 
McLean.” 

The stunned silence was gratifying for a few seconds, but Piper felt ashamed of herself. Everybody turned and looked at The Poster, her dad flexing 
his muscles for the whole world to see. 

“Oh my god!” half the girls screamed at once. 

“Sweet!” a guy said. “The dude with the sword who killed that other dude in that movie?” 

“He is so hot for an old guy,” a girl said, and then she blushed. “I mean I’m sorry. I know he’s your dad. That’s so weird!” 

“It’s weird, all right,” Piper agreed. 

“Do you think you could get me his autograph?” another girl asked. 

Piperforced a smile. She couldn’t say, If my dad survives .... 

“Nfeah, no problem,” she managed. 

The girl squealed in excitement, and more kids surged forward, asking a dozen questions at once. 

“Have you ever been on the set?” 

“Do you live in a mansion?” 

“Do you have lunch with movie stars?” 

“Have you had your rite of passage?” 

That one caught Piper off guard. “Rite of what?” she asked. 

The girls and guys giggled and shoved each other around like this was an embarrassing topic. 

“The rite of passage for an Aphrodite child,” one explained. “You get someone to fall in love with you. Then you break their heart. Dump them. Once 
you do that, you’ve proven yourself worthy of Aphrodite.” 

Piper stared at the crowd to see if they were joking. “Break someone’s heart on purpose? That’s terrible!” 

The others looked confused. 

“Why?” a guy asked. 

“Oh my god!” a girl said. “I bet Aphrodite broke your dad’s heart! I bet he never loved anyone again, did he? That’s so romantic! When you have your 
rite of passage, you can be just like Mom!" 




“Forget it!” Piper yelled, a little louder than she’d intended. The other kids backed away. “I’m not breaking somebody’s heart just for a stupid rite of 
passage!” 

Which of course gave Drew a chance to take back control. “Well, there you go!” she cut in. “Silena said the same thing. She broke the tradition, fell in 
love with that Beckendorf boy, and stayed in love. If you ask me, that’s why things ended tragically for her.” 

“That’s not true!” Lacy squeaked, but Drew glared at her, and she immediately melted back into the crowd. 

“Hardly matters,” Drew continued, “because, Piper, hon, you couldn't break anyone’s heart anyway. And this nonsense about your dad being Tristan 
McLean — that’s so begging for attention.” 

Several of the kids blinked uncertainly. 

“Nt>u mean he’s not her dad?” one asked. 

Drew rolled her eyes. “Please. Now, it’s time for breakfast, people, and Piper here has to start that little quest. So let’s get her packed and get her out 
of here!” 

Drew broke up the crowd and got everyone moving. She called them “hon” and “dear,” but her tone made it clear she expected to be obeyed. Mitchell 
and Lacy helped Piper pack. They even guarded the bathroom while Piper went in and changed into a better traveling outfit. The hand-me-downs weren’t 
fancy — thank god — just well-worn jeans, a T-shirt, a comfortable winter coat, and hiking boots that fit perfectly. She strapped her dagger, Katoptris, to her 
belt. 

When Piper came out, she felt almost normal again. The other campers were standing at their bunks while Drew came around and inspected. Piper 
turned to Mitchell and Lacy and mouthed, Thank you. Mitchell nodded grimly. Lacy flashed a full-braces smile. Piper doubted Drew had ever thanked 
them for anything. She also noticed that the King of Sparta poster had been wadded up and thrown in the trash. Drew’s orders, no doubt. Even though 
Piper had wanted to take the poster down herself, now she was totally steamed. 

When Drew spotted her, she clapped in mock applause. “Very nice! Our little quest girl all dressed in Dumpster clothes again. Now, off you go! No 
need to eat breakfast with us. Good luck with ... whatever. Bye!” 

Piper shouldered her bag. She could feel everyone else’s eyes on her as she walked to the door. She could just leave and forget about it. That 
would’ve been the easy thing. What did she care about this cabin, these shallow kids? 

Except that some of them had tried to help her. Some of them had even stood up to Drew for her. 

She turned at the door. “>bu know, you all don’t have to follow Drew’s orders.” 

The other kids shifted. Several glanced at Drew, but she looked too stunned to respond. 

“Umm,” one managed, “she’s our head counselor.” 

“She’s a tyrant,” Piper corrected. “Nt>u can think for yourselves. There’s got to be more to Aphrodite than this.” 

“More than this,” one kid echoed. 

“Think for ourselves,” a second muttered. 

“People!” Drew screeched. “Don’t be stupid! She’s charm-speaking you.” 

“No,” Piper said. “I’m just telling the truth.” 

At least, Piper thought that was the case. She didn’t understand exactly how this charmspeaking business worked, but she didn’t feel like she was 
putting any special power into her words. She didn’t want to win an argument by tricking people. That would make her no better than Drew. Piper simply 
meant what she said. Besides, even if she tried charmspeaking, she had a feeling it wouldn't work very well on another charmspeaker like Drew. 

Drew sneered at her. “Nt>u may have a little power, Miss Movie Star. But you don’t know the first thing about Aphrodite. \bu have such great ideas? 
What do you think this cabin is about, then? Tell them. Then maybe I'll tell them a few things about you, huh?” 

Piper wanted to make a withering retort, but her anger turned to panic. She was a spy for the enemy, just like Silena Beauregard. An Aphrodite traitor. 
Did Drew know about that, or was she bluffing? Linder Drew’s glare, her confidence began to crumble. 

“Not this,” Piper managed. “Aphrodite is not about this.” 

Then she turned and stormed out before the others could see her blushing. 

Behind her, Drew started laughing. “Not this? Hear that, people? She doesn’t have a clue!” 

Piper promised herself she would never ever go back to that cabin. She blinked away her tears and stormed across the green, not sure where she 
was going — until she saw the dragon swooping down from the sky. 




X V I 



PIPER 



“Leo?” she yelled. 

Sure enough, there he was, sitting atop a giant bronze death machine and grinning like a lunatic. Even before he landed, the camp alarm went up. A 
conch horn blew. All the satyrs started screaming, “Don’t kill me!” Half the camp ran outside in a mixture of pajamas and armor. The dragon set down right 
in the middle of the green, and Leo yelled, “It’s cool! Don’t shoot!” 

Hesitantly, the archers lowered their bows. The warriors backed away, keeping their spears and swords ready. They made a loose wide ring around 
the metal monster. Other demigods hid behind their cabin doors or peeped out the windows. Nobody seemed anxious to get close. 

Piper couldn’t blame them. The dragon was huge. It glistened in the morning sun like a living penny sculpture — different shades of copper and 
bronze — a sixty-foot-long serpent with steel talons and drill-bit teeth and glowing ruby eyes. It had bat-shaped wings twice its length that unfurled like 
metallic sails, making a sound like coins cascading out of a slot machine every time they flapped. 

“It’s beautiful,” Piper muttered. The other demigods stared at her like she was insane. 

The dragon reared its head and shot a column of fire into the sky. Campers scrambled away and hefted their weapons, but Leo slid calmly off the 
dragon’s back. He held up his hands like he was surrendering, except he still had that crazy grin on his face. 

“People of Earth, I come in peace!” he shouted. He looked like he’d been rolling around in the campfire. His army coat and his face were smeared 

with soot. His hands were grease-stained, and he wore a new tool belt around his waist. His eyes were bloodshot. His curly hair was so oily it stuck up in 
porcupine quills, and he smelled strangely of Tabasco sauce. But he looked absolutely delighted. “Festus is just saying hello!" 

“That thing is dangerous!” anAres girl shouted, brandishing her spear. “Kill it now!” 

“Stand down!” someone ordered. 

To Piper’s surprise, it was Jason. He pushed through the crowd, flanked by Annabeth and that girl from the Hephaestus cabin, Nyssa. 

Jason gazed up at the dragon and shook his head in amazement. “Leo, what have you done?” 

“Found a ride!” Leo beamed. “You said I could go on the quest if I got you a ride. Well, I got you a class-A metallic flying bad boy! Festus can take us 

anywhere!” 

“It — has wings,” Nyssa stammered. Her jaw looked like it might drop off her face. 

“\feah!” Leo said. “I found them and reattached them.” 

“But it never had wings. Where did you find them?” 

Leo hesitated, and Piper could tell he was hiding something. 

“In ... the woods,” he said. “Repaired his circuits, too, mostly, so no more problems with him going haywire.” 

“Mostly?” Nyssa asked. 

The dragon’s head twitched. It tilted to one side and a stream of black liquid — maybe oil, hopefully just oil — poured out of its ear, all over Leo. 

“Just a few kinks to work out,” Leo said. 

“But how did you survive ... ?” Nyssa was still staring at the creature in awe. “I mean, the fire breath . . .” 

“I’m quick,” Leo said. “And lucky. Now, am I on this quest, or what?” 

Jason scratched his head. “You named him Festus? \bu know that in Latin, ‘festus’ means ‘happy’? You want us to ride off to save the world on 
Happy the Dragon?” 

The dragon twitched and shuddered and flapped his wings. 

“That’s a yes, bro!” Leo said. “Now, urn, I’d really suggest we get going, guys. I already picked up some supplies in the — urn, in the woods. And all 
these people with weapons are making Festus nervous.” 

Jason frowned. “But we haven’t planned anything yet. We can’t just — ” 

“Go,” Annabeth said. She was the only one who didn’t look nervous at all. Her expression was sad and wistful, like this reminded her of better times. 
“Jason, you’ve only got three days until the solstice now, and you should never keep a nervous dragon waiting. This is certainly a good omen. Go!” 

Jason nodded. Then he smiled at Piper. “Nt>u ready, partner?” 

Piper looked at the bronze dragon wings shining against the sky, and those talons that could’ve shredded her to pieces. 

“>bu bet,” she said. 

Flying on the dragon was the most amazing experience ever, Piper thought. 

Up high, the air was freezing cold; but the dragon’s metal hide generated so much heat, it was like they were flying in a protective bubble. Talk about 
seat warmers! And the grooves in the dragon’s back were designed like high-tech saddles, so they weren’t uncomfortable at all. Leo showed them howto 
hook their feet in the chinks of the armor, like in stirrups, and use the leather safety harnesses cleverly concealed under the exterior plating. They sat 
single file: Leo in front, then Piper, then Jason, and Piper was very aware of Jason right behind her. She wished he would hold on to her, maybe wrap his 
arms around her waist; but sadly, he didn’t. 

Leo used the reins to steer the dragon into the sky like he’d been doing it all his life. The metal wings worked perfectly, and soon the coast of Long 
Island was just a hazy line behind them. They shot over Connecticut and climbed into the gray winter clouds. 

Leo grinned back at them. “Cool, right?” 

“What if we get spotted?” Piper asked. 

“The Mist,” Jason said. “It keeps mortals from seeing magic things. If they spot us, they’ll probably mistake us for a small plane or something.” 

Piper glanced over her shoulder. “You sure about that?” 

“No,” he admitted. Then Piper saw he was clutching a photo in his hand — a picture of a girl with dark hair. 

She gave Jason a quizzical look, but he blushed and put the photo in his pocket. “We’re making good time. Probably get there by tonight.” 

Piper wondered who the girl in the picture was, but she didn’t want to ask; and if Jason didn’t volunteer the information, that wasn’t a good sign. Had 
he remembered something about his life before? Was that a photo of his real girlfriend? 

Stop it, she thought. You’ll just torture yourself. 

She asked a safer question. “Where are we heading?” 

“To find the god of the North Wind,” Jason said. “And chase some storm spirits.” 



XVII 



LEO 



Leo was totally buzzing 

The expression on everyone’s faces when he flew the dragon into camp? Priceless! He thought his cabinmates were going to bust a lug nut. 

Festus had been awesome too. He hadn’t blowtorched a single cabin or eaten any satyrs, even if he did dribble a little oil from his ear. Okay, a lot of 
oil. Leo could work on that later. 

So maybe Leo didn’t seize the chance to tell everybody about Bunker 9 or the flying boat design. He needed some time to think about all that. He 
could tell them when he came back. 

If I come back, part of him thought. 

Nah, he’d come back. He’d scored a sweet magic tool belt from the bunker, plus a lot of cool supplies now safely stowed in his backpack. Besides, 
he had a fire-breathing, only slightly leaky dragon on his side. What could go wrong? 

Well, the control disk could bust, the bad part of him suggested. Festus could eat you. 

Okay, so the dragon wasn't quite as fixed as Leo might’ve let on. He’d worked all night attaching those wings, but he hadn’t found an extra dragon 
brain anywhere in the bunker. Hey, they were under a time limit! Three days until the solstice. They had to get going. Besides, Leo had cleaned the disk 
pretty well. Most of the circuits were still good. It would just have to hold together. 

His bad side started to think, Yeah, but what if— 

“Shut up, me,” Leo said aloud. 

“What?” Piper asked. 

“Nothing,” he said. “Long night. I think I’m hallucinating. It’s cool.” 

Sitting in front, Leo couldn't see their faces, but he assumed from their silence that his friends were not pleased to have a sleepless, hallucinating 
dragon driver. 

“Just joking.” Leo decided it might be good to change the subject. “So what’s the plan, bro? \bu said something about catching wind, or breaking 
wind, or something?” 

As they flew over New England, Jason laid out the game plan: First, find some guy named Boreas and grill him for information — 

“His name is Boreas ?” Leo had to ask. “What is he, the God of Boring?” 

Second, Jason continued, they had to find those venti that had attacked them at the Grand Canyon — 

“Can we just call them storm spirits?” Leo asked. “Venti makes them sound like evil espresso drinks.” 

And third, Jason finished, they had to find out who the storm spirits worked for, so they could find Hera and free her. 

“So you want to look for Dylan, the nasty storm dude, on purpose,” Leo said. “The guy who threw me off the skywalk and sucked Coach Hedge into 
the clouds.” 

“That’s about it,” Jason said. “Well ... there may be a wolf involved, too. But I think she’s friendly. She probably won’t eat us, unless we show 
weakness.” 

Jason told them about his dream — the big nasty mother wolf and a burned-out house with stone spires growing out of the swimming pool. 

“Uh-huh,” Leo said. “But you don’t know where this place is.” 

“Nope,” Jason admitted. 

“There’s also giants,” Piper added. “The prophecy said the giants’ revenge.” 

“Hold on,” Leo said. “Giants — like more than one? Why can’t it be just one giant who wants revenge?” 

“I don’t think so,” Piper said. “I remember in some of the old Greek stories, there was something about an army of giants.” 

“Great,” Leo muttered. “Of course, with our luck, it’s an army. So you know anything else about these giants? Didn’t you do a bunch of myth research 
for that movie with your dad?” 

“Nbur dad’s an actor?” Jason asked. 

Leo laughed. “I keep forgetting about your amnesia. Heh. Forgetting about amnesia. That’s funny. But yeah, her dad’s Tristan McLean.” 

“Uh — Sorry, what was he in?” 

“It doesn’t matter,” Piper said quickly. “The giants — well, there were lots of giants in Greek mythology. But if I’m thinking of the right ones, they were 
bad news. Huge, almost impossible to kill. They could throw mountains and stuff. I think they were related to the Titans. They rose from the earth after 
Kronos lost the war — I mean the first Titan war, thousands of years ago — and they tried to destroy Olympus. If we’re talking about the same giants — ” 

“Chiron said it was happening again,” Jason remembered. “The last chapter. That’s what he meant. No wonder he didn’t want us to know all the 
details.” 

Leo whistled. “So ... giants who can throw mountains. Friendly wolves that will eat us if we show weakness. Evil espresso drinks. Gotcha. Maybe this 
isn’t the time to bring up my psycho babysitter.” 

“Is that another joke?” Piper asked. 

Leo told them about Tia Callida, who was really Hera, and how she’d appeared to him at camp. He didn’t tell them about his fire abilities. That was 
still a touchy subject, especially after Nyssa had told him fire demigods tended to destroy cities and stuff. Besides, then Leo would have to get into how 
he’d caused his mom’s death, and ... No. He wasn’t ready to go there. He did manage to tell about the night she died, not mentioning the fire, just saying 
the machine shop collapsed. It was easier without having to look at his friends, just keeping his eyes straight ahead as theyflew. 

And he told them about the strange woman in earthen robes who seemed to be asleep, and seemed to know the future. 

Leo estimated the whole state of Massachusetts passed below them before his friends spoke. 

“That’s ... disturbing,” Piper said. 

“’Bout sums it up,” Leo agreed. “Thing is, everybody says don’t trust Hera. She hates demigods. And the prophecy said we’d cause death if we 
unleash her rage. So I’m wondering ... why are we doing this?” 

“She chose us,” Jason said. “All three of us. We’re the first of the seven who have to gather for the Great Prophecy. This quest is the beginning of 
something much bigger.” 

That didn’t make Leo feel any better, but he couldn’t argue with Jason’s point. It did feel like this was the start of something huge. He just wished that 
if there were four more demigods destined to help them, they’d show up quick. Leo didn't want to hog all the terrifying life-threatening adventures. 



“Besides,” Jason continued, “helping Hera is the only way I can get back my memory. And that dark spire in my dream seemed to be feeding on 
Hera’s energy. If that thing unleashes a king of the giants by destroying Hera — ” 

“Not a good trade-off,” Piper agreed. “At least Hera is on our side — mostly. Losing her would throw the gods into chaos. She’s the main one who 
keeps peace in the family. And a war with the giants could be even more destructive than the Titan War.” 

Jason nodded. “Chiron also talked about worse forces stirring on the solstice, with it being a good time for dark magic, and all — something that could 
awaken if Hera were sacrificed on that day. And this mistress who’s controlling the storm spirits, the one who wants to kill all the demigods — ” 

“Might be that weird sleeping lady,” Leo finished. “Dirt Woman fully awake? Not something I want to see.” 

“But who is she?” Jason asked. “And what does she have to do with giants?” 

Good questions, but none of them had answers. They flew in silence while Leo wondered if he’d done the right thing, sharing so much. He'd never 
told anyone about that night at the warehouse. Even if he hadn't give them the whole story, it still felt strange, like he’d opened up his chest and taken out 
all the gears that made him tick. His body was shaking, and not from the cold. He hoped Piper, sitting behind him, couldn’t tell. 

The forge and dove shall break the cage. Wasn't that the prophecy line? That meant Piper and he would have to figure out how to break into that 
magic rock prison, assuming they could find it. Then they’d unleash Hera’s rage, causing a lot of death. Well, that sounded fun! Leo had seen Tia Callida 
in action; she liked knives, snakes, and putting babies in roaring fires. Yeah, definitely let’s unleash her rage. Great idea. 

Festus kept flying. The wind got colder, and below them snowy forests seemed to go on forever. Leo didn’t know exactly where Quebec was. He’d 
told Festus to take them to the palace of Boreas, and Festus kept going north. Hopefully, the dragon knew the way, and they wouldn’t end up at the North 
Pole. 

“Why don't you get some sleep?” Piper said in his ear. “Nt>u were up all night.” 

Leo wanted to protest, but the word sleep sounded really good. “You won’t let me fall off?" 

Piper patted his shoulder. “Trust me, Valdez. Beautiful people never lie.” 

“Right,” he muttered. He leaned forward against the warm bronze of the dragon’s neck, and closed his eyes. 




X V I I 1 



LEO 

It SEEMED HE SLEPT ONLY FOR SECONDS, but when Piper shook him awake, the daylight was fading. 

“We’re here,” she said. 

Leo rubbed the sleep out of his eyes. Below them, a city sat on a cliff overlooking a river. The plains around it were dusted with snow, but the city itself 
glowed warmly in the winter sunset. Buildings crowded together inside high walls like a medieval town, way older than any place Leo had seen before. In 
the center was an actual castle — at least Leo assumed it was a castle — with massive red brick walls and a square tower with a peaked, green gabled 
roof. 

“Tell me that’s Quebec and not Santa’s workshop,” Leo said. 

“>feah, Quebec City,” Piper confirmed. “One of the oldest cities in North America. Founded around sixteen hundred or so?" 

Leo raised an eyebrow. “\bur dad do a movie about that too?” 

She made a face at him, which Leo was used to, but it didn’t quite work with her new glamorous makeup. “I read sometimes, okay? Just because 
Aphrodite claimed me, doesn’t mean I have to be an airhead.” 

“Feisty!” Leo said. “So you know so much, what’s that castle?” 

“A hotel, I think.” 

Leo laughed. “No way.” 

But as they got closer, Leo saw she was right. The grand entrance was bustling with doormen, valets, and porters taking bags. Sleek black luxury 
cars idled in the drive. People in elegant suits and winter cloaks hurried to get out of the cold. 

“The North Wind is staying in a hotel?” Leo said. “That can’t be — ” 

“Heads up, guys,” Jason interrupted. “We got company!” 

Leo looked below and saw what Jason meant. Rising from the top of the tower were two winged figures — angry angels, with nasty-looking swords. 

Festus didn’t like the angel guys. He swooped to a halt in midair, wings beating and talons bared, and made a rumbling sound in his throat that Leo 
recognized. He was getting ready to blow fire. 

“Steady, boy,” Leo muttered. Something told him the angels would not take kindly to getting torched. 

“I don’t like this," Jason said. “They look like storm spirits.” 

At first Leo thought he was right, but as the angels got closer, he could see they were much more solid than venti. They looked like regular teenagers 
except for their icy white hair and feathery purple wings. Their bronze swords were jagged, like icicles. Their faces looked similar enough that they 
might’ve been brothers, but they definitely weren't twins. 

One was the size of an ox, with a bright red hockey jersey, baggy sweatpants, and black leather cleats. The guy clearly had been in too many fights, 
because both his eyes were black, and when he bared his teeth, several of them were missing. 

The other guy looked like he’d just stepped off one of Leo’s mom’s 1980s rock album covers — Journey, maybe, or Hall & Oates, or something even 
lamer. His ice-white hair was long and feathered into a mullet. He wore pointy-toed leather shoes, designer pants that were way too tight, and a god-awful 
silk shirt with the top three buttons open. Maybe he thought he looked like a groovy love god, but the guy couldn’t have weighed more than ninety pounds, 
and he had a bad case of acne. 

The angels pulled up in front of the dragon and hovered there, swords at the ready. 

The hockey ox grunted. “No clearance.” 

“’Scuse me?" Leo said. 

“Nt>u have no flight plan on file,” explained the groovy love god. On top of his other problems, he had a French accent so bad Leo was sure it was 
fake. “This is restricted airspace.” 

“Destroy them?” The ox showed off his gap-toothed grin. 

The dragon began to hiss steam, ready to defend them. Jason summoned his golden sword, but Leo cried, “Hold on! 

Let’s have some manners here, boys. Can I at least find out who has the honor of destroying me?” 

“I am Cal!” the ox grunted. He looked very proud of himself, like he’d taken a long time to memorize that sentence. 

“That’s short for Calais,” the love god said. “Sadly, my brother cannot say words with more than two syllables — ” 

“Pizza! Hockey! Destroy!” Cal offered. 

“ — which includes his own name,” the love god finished. 

“I am Cal," Cal repeated. “And this is Zethes! My brother!” 

“Wow,” Leo said. “That was almost three sentences, man! Way to go.” 

Cal grunted, obviously pleased with himself. 

“Stupid buffoon,” his brother grumbled. “They make fun of you. But no matter. I am Zethes, which is short for Zethes. And the lady there — ” He winked 
at Piper, but the wink was more like a facial seizure. “She can call me anything she likes. Perhaps she would like to have dinner with a famous demigod 
before we must destroy you?” 

Piper made a sound like gagging on a cough drop. “That’s ... a truly horrifying offer.” 

“It is no problem.” Zethes wiggled his eyebrows. “We are a very romantic people, we Boreads.” 

“Boreads?” Jason cut in. “Do you mean, like, the sons of Boreas?” 

“Ah, so you’ve heard of us!” Zethes looked pleased. “We are our father’s gatekeepers. So you understand, we cannot have unauthorized people 
flying in his airspace on creaky dragons, scaring the silly mortal peoples.” 

He pointed below, and Leo saw that the mortals were starting to take notice. Several were pointing up — not with alarm, yet — more with confusion and 
annoyance, like the dragon was a traffic helicopter flying too low. 

“Which is sadly why, unless this is an emergency landing,” Zethes said, brushing his hair out of his acne-covered face, “we will have to destroy you 
painfully.” 

“Destroy!” Cal agreed, with a little more enthusiasm than Leo thought necessary. 

“Wait!” Piper said. “This is an emergency landing.” 



“Awww!” Cal looked so disappointed, Leo almost felt sorry for him. 

Zethes studied Piper, which of course he’d already been doing. “How does the pretty girl decide this is an emergency, then?” 

“We have to see Boreas. It’s totally urgent! Please?” She forced a smile, which Leo figured must’ve been killing her; but she still had that blessing of 
Aphrodite thing going on, and she looked great. Something about her voice, too — Leo found himself believing every word. Jason was nodding, looking 
absolutely convinced. 

Zethes picked at his silk shirt, probably making sure it was still open wide enough. “Well ... I hate to disappoint a lovely lady, but you see, my sister, 
she would have an avalanche if we allowed you — ” 

“And our dragon is malfunctioning!” Piper added. “It could crash any minute!” 

Festus shuddered helpfully, then turned his head and spilled gunk out of his ear, splattering a black Mercedes in the parking lot below. 

“No destroy?” Cal whimpered. 

Zethes pondered the problem. Then he gave Piper another spasmodic wink. “Well, you are pretty. I mean, you’re right. A malfunctioning dragon — this 
could be an emergency.” 

“Destroy them later?” Cal offered, which was probably as close to friendly as he ever got. 

“It will take some explaining,” Zethes decided. “Father has not been kind to visitors lately. But, yes. Come, faulty dragon people. Follow us.” 

The Boreads sheathed their swords and pulled smaller weapons from their belts — or at least Leo thought they were weapons. Then the Boreads 
switched them on, and Leo realized they were flashlights with orange cones, like the ones traffic controller guys use on a runway. Cal and Zethes turned 
and swooped toward the hotel’s tower. 

Leo turned to his friends. “I love these guys. Follow them?” 

Jason and Piper didn’t look eager. 

“I guess,” Jason decided. “We’re here now. But I wonder why Boreas hasn’t been kind to visitors." 

“Pfft, he just hasn’t met us.” Leo whistled. “Festus, after those flashlights!” 

As they got closer, Leo worried they’d crash into the tower. The Boreads made right for the green gabled peak and didn’t slow down. Then a section of 
the slanted roof slid open, revealing an entrance easily wide enough for Festus. The top and bottom were lined with icicles like jagged teeth. 

“This cannot be good,” Jason muttered, but Leo spurred the dragon downward, and they swooped in after the Boreads. 

They landed in what must have been the penthouse suite; but the place had been hit by a flash freeze. The entry hall had vaulted ceilings forty feet 
high, huge draped windows, and lush oriental carpets. A staircase at the back of the room led up to another equally massive hall, and more corridors 
branched off to the left and right. But the ice made the room’s beauty a little frightening. When Leo slid off the dragon, the carpet crunched under his feet. 
A fine layer of frost covered the furniture. The curtains didn’t budge because they were frozen solid, and the ice-coated windows let in weird watery light 
from the sunset. Even the ceiling was furry with icicles. As for the stairs, Leo was sure he’d slip and break his neck if he tried to climb them. 

“Guys,” Leo said, “fix the thermostat in here, and I would totally move in.” 

“Not me.” Jason looked uneasily at the staircase. “Something feels wrong. Something up there ..." 

Festus shuddered and snorted flames. Frost started to form on his scales. 

“No, no, no.” Zethes marched over, though how he could walk in those pointy leather shoes, Leo had no idea. “The dragon must be deactivated. We 
can’t have fire in here. The heat ruins my hair.” 

Festus growled and spun his drill-bit teeth. 

“'S’okay, boy.” Leo turned to Zethes. “The dragon’s a little touchy about the whole deactivation concept. But I’ve got a better solution.” 

“Destroy?” Cal suggested. 

“No, man. You gotta stop with the destroy talk. Just wait.” 

“Leo,” Piper said nervously, “what are you — ” 

“Watch and learn, beauty queen. When I was repairing Festus last night, I found all kinds of buttons. Some, you do not want to know what they do. But 
others . . . Ah, here we go.” 

Leo hooked his fingers behind the dragon’s left foreleg. He pulled a switch, and the dragon shuddered from head to toe. Everyone backed away as 
Festus folded like origami. His bronze plating stacked together. His neck and tail contracted into his body. His wings collapsed and his trunk compacted 
until he was a rectangular metal wedge the size of a suitcase. 

Leo tried to lift it, but the thing weighed about six billion pounds. “Urn . . . yeah. Hold on. I think — aha.” 

He pushed another button. A handle flipped up on the top, and wheels clicked out on the bottom. 

“Ta-da!” he announced. “The world’s heaviest carry-on bag!” 

“That’s impossible,” Jason said. “Something that big couldn’t — ’’ 

“Stop!” Zethes ordered. He and Cal both drew their swords and glared at Leo. 

Leo raised his hands. “Okay . . . what’d I do? Stay calm, guys. If it bothers you that much, I don’t have to take the dragon as carry-on — ” 

“Who are you?” Zethes shoved the point of his sword against Leo’s chest. “A child of the South Wind, spying on us?” 

“What? No!” Leo said. “Son of Hephaestus. Friendly blacksmith, no harm to anyone!” 

Cal growled. He put his face up to Leo’s, and he definitely wasn’t any prettier at point-blank, with his bruised eyes and bashed-in mouth. “Smell fire,” 
he said. “Fire is bad." 

“Oh.” Leo’s heart raced, “\feah, well ... my clothes are kind of singed, and I’ve been working with oil, and — ” 

“No!” Zethes pushed Leo back at sword point. “We can smell fire, demigod. We assumed it was from the creaky dragon, but now the dragon is a 
suitcase. And I still smell fire ... on you." 

If it hadn’t been like three degrees in the penthouse, Leo would’ve started sweating. “Hey ... look ... I don’t know — ” He glanced at his friends 
desperately. “Guys, a little help?” 

Jason already had his gold coin in his hand. He stepped forward, his eyes on Zethes. “Look, there’s been a mistake. Leo isn’t a fire guy. Tell them, 
Leo. Tell them you’re not a fire guy.” 

“Urn ...” 

“Zethes?” Piper tried her dazzling smile again, though she looked a little too nervous and cold to pull it off. “We’re all friends here. Put down your 
swords and let’s talk.” 

“The girl is pretty,” Zethes admitted, “and of course she cannot help being attracted to my amazingness; but sadly, I cannot romance her at this time.” 
He poked his sword point farther into Leo’s chest, and Leo could feel the frost spreading across his shirt, turning his skin numb. 

He wished he could reactivate Festus. He needed some backup. But it would’ve taken several minutes, even if he could reach the button, with two 
purple-winged crazy guys in his path. 

“Destroy him now?” Cal asked his brother. 




Zethes nodded. “Sadly, I think — ” 

“No,” Jason insisted. He sounded calm enough, but Leo figured he was about two seconds away from flipping that coin and going into full gladiator 
mode. “Leo’s just a son of Hephaestus. He’s no threat. Piper here is a daughter of Aphrodite. I’m the son of Zeus. We’re on a peaceful ...” 

Jason’s voice faltered, because both Boreads had suddenly turned on him. 

“What did you say?” Zethes demanded. “You are the son of Zeus?” 

“Urn ... yeah,” Jason said. “That’s a good thing, right? My name is Jason.” 

Cal looked so surprised, he almost dropped his sword. “Can’t be Jason,” he said. “Doesn’t look the same.” 

Zethes stepped forward and squinted at Jason’s face. “No, he is not our Jason. Our Jason was more stylish. Not as much as me — but stylish. 
Besides, our Jason died millennia ago.” 

“Wait,” Jason said. “Your Jason ... you mean the original Jason? The Golden Fleece guy?” 

“Of course,” Zethes said. “We were his crewmates aboard his ship, the Argo, in the old times, when we were mortal demigods. Then we accepted 
immortality to serve our father, so I could look this good for all time, and my silly brother could enjoy pizza and hockey.” 

“Hockey!” Cal agreed. 

“But Jason — our Jason — he died a mortal death,” Zethes said. “You can't be him.” 

“I’m not,” Jason agreed. 

“So, destroy?” Cal asked. Clearly the conversation was giving his two brain cells a serious workout. 

“No,” Zethes said regretfully. “If he is a son of Zeus, he could be the one we've been watching for.” 

“Watching for?” Leo asked. “\bu mean like in a good way: you’ll shower him with fabulous prizes? Or watching for like in a bacf way: he’s in trouble?” 
A girl's voice said, “That depends on my father’s will.” 

Leo looked up the staircase. His heart nearly stopped. At the top stood a girl in a white silk dress. Her skin was unnaturally pale, the color of snow, 
but her hair was a lush mane of black, and her eyes were coffee brown. She focused on Leo with no expression, no smile, no friendliness. But it didn’t 
matter. Leo was in love. She was the most dazzling girl he’d ever seen. 

Then she looked at Jason and Piper, and seemed to understand the situation immediately. 

“Father will want to see the one called Jason,” the girl said. 

“Then it is him?” Zethes asked excitedly. 

“We’ll see,” the girl said. “Zethes, bring our guests.” 

Leo grabbed the handle of his bronze dragon suitcase. He wasn’t sure how he’d lug it up the stairs, but he had to get next to that girl and ask her 
some important questions — like her e-mail address and phone number. 

Before he could take a step, she froze him with a look. Not literally froze, but she might as well have. 

“Not you, Leo Valdez,” she said. 

In the back of his mind, Leo wondered how she knew his name; but mostly he was just concentrating on how crushed he felt. 

“Why not?” He probably sounded like a whiny kindergartner, but he couldn’t help it. 

“Nt>u cannot be in the presence of my father,” the girl said. “Fire and ice — it would not be wise.” 

“We’re going together,” Jason insisted, putting his hand on Leo’s shoulder, “or not at all.” 

The girl tilted her head, like she wasn’t used to people refusing her orders. “He will not be harmed, Jason Grace, unless you make trouble. Calais, 
keep Leo Valdez here. Guard him, but do not kill him.” 

Cal pouted. “Just a little?” 

“No,” the girl insisted. “And take care of his interesting suitcase, until Father passes judgment.” 

Jason and Piper looked at Leo, their expressions asking him a silent question: Howdoyou want to play this? 

Leo felt a surge of gratitude. They were ready to fight for him. They wouldn’t leave him alone with the hockey ox. Part of him wanted to go for it, bust 
out his new tool belt and see what he could do, maybe even summon a fireball or two and warm this place up. But the Boread guys scared him. And that 
gorgeous girl scared him more, even if he still wanted her number. 

“It’s fine, guys,” he said. “No sense causing trouble if we don't have to. Nt>u go ahead.” 

“Listen to your friend,” the pale girl said. “Leo Valdez will be perfectly safe. I wish I could say the same for you, son of Zeus. Now come, King Boreas 
is waiting.” 




X 



X 



JASON 

Jason didn’t want to leave Leo, but he was starting to think that hanging out with Cal the hockey jock might be the least dangerous option in this place. 

As they climbed the icy staircase, Zethes stayed behind them, his blade drawn. The guy might’ve looked like a disco-era reject, but there was nothing 
funny about his sword. Jason figured one hit from that thing would probably turn him into a Popsicle. 

Then there was the ice princess. Every once in a while she’d turn and give Jason a smile, but there was no warmth in her expression. She regarded 
Jason like he was an especially interesting science specimen — one she couldn’t wait to dissect. 

If these were Boreas’s kids, Jason wasn’t sure he wanted to meet Daddy. Annabeth had told him Boreas was the friendliest of the wind gods. 
Apparently that meant he didn’t kill heroes quite as fast as the others did. 

Jason worried that he’d led his friends into a trap. If things went bad, he wasn’t sure he could get them out alive. Without thinking about it, he took 
Piper’s hand for reassurance. 

She raised her eyebrows, but she didn’t let go. 

“It’ll be fine,” she promised. “Just a talk, right?” 

At the top of the stairs, the ice princess looked back and noticed them holding hands. Her smile faded. Suddenly Jason’s hand in Piper’s turned ice 
cold — burning cold. He let go, and his fingers were smoking with frost. So were Piper’s. 

“Warmth is not a good idea here,” the princess advised, “especially when / am your best chance of staying alive. Please, this way.” 

Piper gave him a nervous frown like, What was that about? 

Jason didn’t have an answer. Zethes poked him in the back with his icicle sword, and they followed the princess down a massive hallway decked in 
frosty tapestries. 

Freezing winds blew back and forth, and Jason’s thoughts moved almost as fast. He’d had a lot of time to think while they rode the dragon north, but 
he felt as confused as ever. 

Thalia’s picture was still in his pocket, though he didn’t need to look at it anymore. Her image had burned itself into his mind. It was bad enough not 
remembering his past, but to know he had a sister out there somewhere who might have answers and to have no way of finding her — that just drove him 
up the wall. 

In the picture, Thalia looked nothing like him. They both had blue eyes, but that was it. Her hair was black. Her complexion was more Mediterranean. 
Her facial features were sharper — like a hawk’s. 

Still, Thalia looked so familiar. Hera had left him just enough memory that he could be certain Thalia was his sister. But Annabeth had acted 
completely surprised when he’d told her, like she’d never heard of Thalia’s having a brother. Did Thalia even know about him? How had they been 
separated? 

Hera had taken those memories. She’d stolen everything from Jason’s past, plopped him into a new life, and now she expected him to save her from 
some prison just so he could get back what she’d taken. It made Jason so angry, he wanted to walk away, let Hera rot in that cage: but he couldn’t. He 
was hooked. He had to know more, and that made him even more resentful. 

“Hey.” Piper touched his arm. “You still with me?” 

“>feah ... yeah, sorry.” 

He was grateful for Piper. He needed a friend, and he was glad she’d started losing the Aphrodite blessing. The makeup was fading. Her hair was 
slowly going back to its old choppy style with the little braids down the sides. It made her look more real, and as far as Jason was concerned, more 
beautiful. 

He was sure now that they’d never known each other before the Grand Canyon. Their relationship was just a trick of the Mist in Piper’s mind. But the 
longer he spent with her, the more he wished it had been real. 

Stop that, he told himself. It wasn’t fair to Piper, thinking that way. Jason had no idea what was waiting for him back in his old life — or 1/1/70 might be 
waiting. But he was pretty sure his past wouldn’t mix with Camp Half-Blood. After this quest, who knew what would happen? Assuming they even survived. 

At the end of the hallway they found themselves in front of a set of oaken doors carved with a map of the world. In each corner was a man’s bearded 
face, blowing wind. Jason was pretty sure he’d seen maps like this before. But in this version, all the wind guys were Winter, blowing ice and snow from 
every corner of the world. 

The princess turned. Her brown eyes glittered, and Jason felt like he was a Christmas present she was hoping to open. 

“This is the throne room,” she said. “Be on your best behavior, Jason Grace. My father can be . . . chilly. I will translate for you, and try to encourage 
him to hear you out. I do hope he spares you. We could have such fun.” 

Jason guessed this girl’s definition offun was not the same as his. 

“Urn, okay,” he managed. “But really, we’re just here for a little talk. We’ll be leaving right afterward.” 

The girl smiled. “I love heroes. So blissfully ignorant.” 

Piper rested her hand on her dagger. “Well, how about you enlighten us? You say you’re going to translate for us, and we don’t even know who you 
are. What’s your name?” 

The girl sniffed with distaste. “I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised you don’t recognize me. Even in the ancient times the Greeks did not know me well. 
Their island homes were too warm, too far from my domain. I am Khione, daughter of Boreas, goddess of snow.” 

She stirred the air with her finger, and a miniature blizzard swirled around her — big, fluffy flakes as soft as cotton. 

“Now, come,” Khione said. The oaken doors blew open, and cold blue light spilled out of the room. “Hopefully you will survive your little talk.” 



X X 



JASON 

If the entry hall had been cold, the throne room was like a meat locker. 

Mist hung in the air. Jason shivered, and his breath steamed. Along the walls, purple tapestries showed scenes of snowy forests, barren mountains, 
and glaciers. High above, ribbons of colored light — the aurora borealis — pulsed along the ceiling. A layer of snow covered the floor, so Jason had to step 
carefully. All around the room stood life-size ice sculpture warriors — some in Greek armor, some medieval, some in modern camouflage — all frozen in 
various attack positions, swords raised, guns locked and loaded. 

At least Jason thoughtVney were sculptures. Then he tried to step between two Greek spearmen, and they moved with surprising speed, their joints 
cracking and spraying ice crystals as they crossed their javelins to block Jason’s path. 

From the far end of the hall, a man’s voice rang out in a language that sounded like French. The room was so long and misty, Jason couldn’t see the 
other end; but whatever the man said, the ice guards uncrossed their javelins. 

“It’s fine,” Khione said. “My father has ordered them not to kill you just yet.” 

“Super,” Jason said. 

Zethes prodded him in the back with his sword. “Keep moving, Jason Junior.” 

“Please don’t call me that.” 

“My father is not a patient man,” Zethes warned, “and the beautiful Piper, sadly, is losing her magic hairdo very fast. Later, perhaps, I can lend her 
something from my wide assortment of hair products.” 

“Thanks,” Piper grumbled. 

They kept walking, and the mist parted to reveal a man on an ice throne. He was sturdily built, dressed in a stylish white suit that seemed woven from 
snow, with dark purple wings that spread out to either side. His long hair and shaggy beard were encrusted with icicles, so Jason couldn’t tell if his hair 
was gray or just white with frost. His arched eyebrows made him look angry, but his eyes twinkled more warmly than his daughter’s — as if he might have a 
sense of humor buried somewhere under that permafrost. Jason hoped so. 

“Bienvenu,” the king said. “Je suis Boreas le Roi. Et vous?” 

Khione the snow goddess was about to speak, but Piper stepped forward and curtsied. 

“Votre Majeste,” she said, “je suis Piper McLean. Etc’est Jason, fils de Zeus.” 

The king smiled with pleasant surprise. “Vous parlezfrangais? Tres bien!” 

“Piper, you speak French?” Jason asked. Piper frowned. “No. Why?” “\bu just spoke French.” Piper blinked. “I did?” The king said something else, 
and Piper nodded. “Oui, 

Votre Majeste.” 

The king laughed and clapped his hands, obviously delighted. He said a few more sentences then swept his hand toward his daughter as if shooing 
her away. 

Khione looked miffed. “The king says — ” 

“He says I’m a daughter of Aphrodite,” Piper interrupted, “so naturally I can speak French, which is the language of love. I had no idea. His Majesty 
says Khione won’t have to translate now.” 

Behind them, Zethes snorted, and Khione shot him a murderous look. She bowed stiffly to her father and took a step back. 

The king sized up Jason, and Jason decided it would be a good idea to bow. “Nt>ur Majesty, I’m Jason Grace. Thank you for, urn, not killing us. May I 
ask ... why does a Greek god speak French?” 

Piper had another exchange with the king. 

“He speaks the language of his host country,” Piper translated. “He says all gods do this. Most Greek gods speak English, as they now reside in the 
United States, but Boreas was never welcomed in their realm. His domain was always far to the north. These days he likes Quebec, so he speaks 
French.” 

The king said something else, and Piper turned pale. 

“The king says ...” She faltered. “He says — ” 

“Oh, allow me,” Khione said. “My father says he has orders to kill you. Did I not mention that earlier?” 

Jason tensed. The king was still smiling amiably, like he’d just delivered great news. 

“Kill us?” Jason said. “Why?” 

“Because,” the king said, in heavily accented English, “my lord Aeolus has commanded it.” 

Boreas rose. He stepped down from his throne and furled his wings against his back. As he approached, Khione and Zethes bowed. Jason and 
Piper followed their example. 

“I shall deign to speak your language,” Boreas said, “as Piper McLean has honored me in mine. Toujours, I have had a fondness for the children of 

Aphrodite. As for you, Jason Grace, my master Aeolus would not expect me to kill a son of Lord Zeus . . . without first hearing you out.” 

Jason’s gold coin seemed to grow heavy in his pocket. If he were forced to fight, he didn’t like his chances. Two seconds at least to summon his 
blade. Then he’d be facing a god, two of his children, and an army of freeze-dried warriors. 

“Aeolus is the master of the winds, right?” Jason asked. “Why would he want us dead?” 

“Nt>u are demigods,” Boreas said, as if this explained everything. “Aeolus’s job is to contain the winds, and demigods have always caused him many 
headaches. They ask him for favors. They unleash winds and cause chaos. But the final insult was the battle with Typhon last summer...” 

Boreas waved his hand, and a sheet of ice like a flat-screen TV appeared in the air. Images of a battle flickered across the surface — a giant 
wrapped in storm clouds, wading across a river toward the Manhattan skyline. Tiny, glowing figures — the gods, Jason guessed — swarmed around him 
like angry wasps, pounding the monster with lightning and fire. Finally the river erupted in a massive whirlpool, and the smoky form sank beneath the 
waves and disappeared. 

“The storm giant, Typhon,” Boreas explained. “The first time the gods defeated him, eons ago, he did not die quietly. His death released a host of 
storm spirits — wild winds that answered to no one. It was Aeolus’s job to track them all down and imprison them in his fortress. The other gods — they did 
not help. They did not even apologize for the inconvenience. It took Aeolus centuries to track down all the storm spirits, and naturally this irritated him. 



Then, last summer, Typhon was defeated again — ” 

“And his death released another wave of venti,” Jason guessed. “Which made Aeolus even angrier.” 

“C’est vrai,” Boreas agreed. 

“But, Nfciur Majesty,” Piper said, “the gods had no choice but to battle Typhon. He was going to destroy Olympus! Besides, why punish demigods for 
that?” 

The king shrugged. “Aeolus cannot take out his anger on the gods. They are his bosses, and very powerful. So he gets even with the demigods who 
helped them in the war. He issued orders to us: demigods who come to us for aid are no longer to be tolerated. We are to crush your little mortal faces.” 
There was an uncomfortable silence. 

“That sounds ... extreme,” Jason ventured. “But you’re not going to crush our faces yet, right? Ntiu’re going to listen to us first, ’cause once you hear 
about our quest — ’’ 

“\fes, yes,” the king agreed. “\bu see, Aeolus also said that a son of Zeus might seek my aid, and if this happened, I should listen to you before 
destroying you, as you might — how did he put it? — make all our lives very interesting. I am only obligated to listen, however. After that, I am free to pass 
judgment as I see fit. But I will listen first. Khione wishes this also. It may be that we will not kill you.” 

Jason felt like he could almost breathe again. “Great. Thanks.” 

“Do not thank me.” Boreas smiled. “There are many ways you could make our lives interesting. Sometimes we keep demigods for our amusement, 
as you can see." 

He gestured around the room to the various ice statues. 

Piper made a strangled noise. “Nt>u mean — they’re all demigods? Frozen demigods? They’re alive?” 

“An interesting question,” Boreas conceded, as if it had never occurred to him before. “They do not move unless they are obeying my orders. The rest 
of the time, they are merely frozen. Unless they were to melt, I suppose, which would be very messy.” 

Khione stepped behind Jason and put her cold fingers on his neck. “My father gives me such lovely presents,” she murmured in his ear. “Join our 
court. Perhaps I'll let your friends go.” 

“What?” Zethes broke in. “If Khione gets this one, then I deserve the girl. Khione always gets more presents!” 

“Now, children,” Boreas said sternly. “Our guests will think you are spoiled! Besides, you moved too fast. We have not even heard the demigod’s 
story yet. Then we will decide what to do with them. Please, Jason Grace, entertain us.” 

Jason felt his brain shutting down. He didn’t look at Piper for fear he’d completely lose it. He'd gotten them into this, and now they were going die — or 
worse, they’d be amusements for Boreas’s children and end up frozen forever in this throne room, slowly corroding from freezer burn. 

Khione purred and stroked his neck. Jason didn't plan it, but electricity sparked along his skin. There was loud pop, and Khione flew backward, 
skidding across the floor. 

Zethes laughed. “That is good! I’m glad you did that, even though I have to kill you now.” 

For a moment, Khione was too stunned to react. Then the air around her began to swirl with a micro-blizzard. “You dare — ” 

“Stop,” Jason ordered, with as much force as he could muster. “You’re not going to kill us. And you’re not going to keep us. We’re on a quest for the 
queen of the gods herself, so unless you want Hera busting down your doors, you’re going to let us go.” 

He sounded a lot more confident than he felt, but it got their attention. Khione’s blizzard swirled to a stop. Zethes lowered his sword. They both looked 
uncertainly at their father. 

“Hmm,” Boreas said. His eyes twinkled, but Jason couldn't tell if it was with anger or amusement. “A son of Zeus, favored by Hera? This is definitely a 
first. Tell us your story.” 

Jason would’ve botched it right there. He hadn’t been expecting to get the chance to talk, and now that he could, his voice abandoned him. 

Piper saved him. “\bur Majesty.” She curtsied again with incredible poise, considering her life was on the line. She told Boreas the whole story, from 
the Grand Canyon to the prophecy, much better and faster than Jason could have. 

“All we ask for is guidance,” Piper concluded. “These storm spirits attacked us, and they’re working for some evil mistress. If we find them, maybe we 
can find Hera.” 

The king stroked the icicles in his beard. Out the windows, night had fallen, and the only light came from the aurora borealis overhead, washing 
everything in red and blue. 

“I know ofthese storm spirits,” Boreas said. “I know where they are kept, and of the prisoner they took.” 

“Nt>u mean Coach Hedge?” Jason asked. “He's alive?” 

Boreas waved aside the question. “For now. But the one who controls these storm winds ... It would be madness to oppose her. You would be better 
staying here as frozen statues.” 

“Hera’s in trouble,” Jason said. “In three days she’s going to be — I don’t know — consumed, destroyed, something. And a giant is going to rise." 

“Nfes,” Boreas agreed. Was it Jason’s imagination, or did he shoot Khione an angry look? “Many horrible things are waking. Even my children do not 
tell me all the news they should. The Great Stirring of monsters that began with Kronos — your father Zeus foolishly believed it would end when the Titans 
were defeated. But just as it was before, so it is now. The final battle is yet to come, and the one who will wake is more terrible than any Titan. Storm 
spirits — these are only beginning. The earth has many more horrors to yield up. When monsters no longer stay in Tartarus, and souls are no longer 
confined to Hades . . . Olympus has good reason to fear.” 

Jason wasn’t sure what all this meant, but he didn’t like the way Khione was smiling — like this was her definition of fun. 

“So you’ll help us?” Jason asked the king. 

Boreas scowled. “I did not say that.” 

“Please, \bur Majesty,” Piper said. 

Everyone’s eyes turned toward her. She had to be scared out of her mind, but she looked beautiful and confident — and it had nothing to do with the 
blessing of Aphrodite. She looked herself again, in day-old traveling clothes with choppy hair and no makeup. But she almost glowed with warmth in that 
cold throne room. “If you tell us where the storm spirits are, we can capture them and bring them to Aeolus. You’d look good in front of your boss. Aeolus 
might pardon us and the other demigods. We could even rescue Gleeson Hedge. Everyone wins.” 

“She’s pretty,” Zethes mumbled. “I mean, she’s right.” 

“Father, don’t listen to her,” Khione said. “She’s a child of Aphrodite. She dares to charmspeak a god? Freeze her now!” 

Boreas considered this. Jason slipped his hand in his pocket and got ready to bring out the gold coin. If things went wrong, he’d have to move fast. 
The movement caught Boreas’s eye. “What is that on your forearm, demigod?” 

Jason hadn’t realized his coat sleeve had gotten pushed up, revealing the edge of his tattoo. Reluctantly, he showed Boreas his marks. 

The god’s eyes widened. Khione actually hissed and stepped away. 

Then Boreas did something unexpected. He laughed so loudly, an icicle cracked from the ceiling and crashed next to his throne. The god’s form 
began to flicker. His beard disappeared. He grew taller and thinner, and his clothes changed into a Roman toga, lined with purple. His head was crowned 
with a frosty laurel wreath, and a gladius — a Roman sword like Jason’s — hung at his side. 




“Aquilon," Jason said, though where he got the god’s Roman name from, he had no idea. 

The god inclined his head. “\bu recognize me better in this form, yes? And yet you said you came from Camp Half-Blood?” 

Jason shifted his feet. “Uh ... yes, Your Majesty.” 

“And Hera sent you there...” The winter god’s eyes were full of mirth. “I understand now. Oh, she plays a dangerous game. Bold, but dangerous! No 
wonder Olympus is closed. They must be trembling at the gamble she has taken.” 

“Jason,” Piper said nervously, “why did Boreas change shape? The toga, the wreath. What’s going on?” 

“It’s his Roman form,” Jason said. “But what’s going on — I don’t know.” 

The god laughed. “No, I’m sure you don’t. This should be very interesting to watch.” 

“Does that mean you'll let us go?” Piper asked. 

“My dear,” Boreas said, “there is no reason for me to kill you. If Hera’s plan fails, which I think it will, you will tear each other apart. Aeolus will never 
have to worry about demigods again.” 

Jason felt as if Khione’s cold fingers were on his neck again, but it wasn’t her — it was just the feeling that Boreas was right. That sense of wrongness 
which had bothered Jason since he got to Camp Half-Blood, and Chiron’s comment about his arrival being disastrous — Boreas knew what they meant. 

“I don’t suppose you could explain?” Jason asked. 

“Oh, perish the thought! It is not for me to interfere in Hera’s plan. No wonder she took your memory.” Boreas chuckled, apparently still having a great 
time imagining demigods tearing each other apart. “Nt>u know, I have a reputation as a helpful wind god. Unlike my brethren, I’ve been known to fall in love 
with mortals. Why, my sons Zethes and Calais started as demigods — ” 

“Which explains why they are idiots,” Khione growled. 

“Stop it!” Zethes snapped back. “Just because you were born a full goddess — ” 

“Both of you, freeze,” Boreas ordered. Apparently, that word carried a lot of weight in the household, because the two siblings went absolutely still. 
“Now, as I was saying, I have a good reputation, but it is rare that Boreas plays an important role in the affairs of gods. I sit here in my palace, at the edge 
of civilization, and so rarely have amusements. Why, even that fool Notus, the South Wind, gets spring break in Cancun. What do I get? A winter festival 
with naked Quebecois rolling around in the snow!” 

“I like the winter festival,” Zethes muttered. 

“My point,” Boreas snapped, “is that I now have a chance to be the center. Oh, yes, I will let you go on this quest. Nt>u will find your storm spirits in the 
windy city, of course. Chicago — ” 

“Father!” Khione protested. 

Boreas ignored his daughter. “If you can capture the winds, you may be able to gain safe entrance to the court of Aeolus. If by some miracle you 
succeed, be sure to tell him you captured the winds on my orders.” 

“Okay, sure,” Jason said. “So Chicago is where we’ll find this lady who’s controlling the winds? She’s the one who’s trapped Hera?” 

“Ah.” Boreas grinned. “Those are two different questions, son of Jupiter.” 

Jupiter, Jason noticed. Before, he called me son of Zeus. 

“The one who controls the winds,” Boreas continued, “yes, you will find her in Chicago. But she is only a servant — a servant who is very likely to 
destroy you. If you succeed against her and take the winds, then you may go to Aeolus. Only he has knowledge of all the winds on the earth. All secrets 
come to his fortress eventually. If anyone can tell you where Hera is imprisoned, it is Aeolus. As for who you will meet when you finally find Hera’s cage 
— truly, if I told you that, you would beg me to freeze you.” 

“Father,” Khione protested, “you can’t simply let them — ” 

“I can do what I like,” he said, his voice hardening. “I am still master here, am I not?” 

The way Boreas glared at his daughter, it was obvious they had some ongoing argument. Khione’s eyes flashed with anger, but she clenched her 
teeth. “As you wish, Father.” 

“Now go, demigods,” Boreas said, “before I change my mind. Zethes, escort them out safely.” 

They all bowed, and the god of the North Wind dissolved into mist. 

Back in the entry hall, Cal and Leo were waiting for them. Leo looked cold but unharmed. He'd even gotten cleaned up, and his clothes looked newly 
washed, like he’d used the hotel’s valet service. Festus the dragon was back in normal form, snorting fire over his scales to keep himself defrosted. 

As Khione led them down the stairs, Jason noticed that Leo’s eyes followed her. Leo started combing his hair back with his hands. Uh-oh, Jason 
thought. He made a mental note to warn Leo about the snow goddess later. She was not someone to get a crush on. 

At the bottom step, Khione turned to Piper. “\fou have fooled my father, girl. But you have not fooled me. We are not done. And you, Jason Grace, I will 
see you as a statue in the throne room soon enough.” 

“Boreas is right,” Jason said. “Ntiu’re a spoiled kid. See you around, ice princess.” 

Khione’s eyes flared pure white. For once, she seemed at a loss for words. She stormed back up the stairs — literally. Hallway up, she turned into a 
blizzard and disappeared. 

“Be careful,” Zethes warned. “She never forgets an insult.” 

Cal grunted in agreement. “Bad sister.” 

“She’s the goddess of snow,” Jason said. “What’s she going to do, throw snowballs at us?” But as he said it, Jason had a feeling Khione could do a 
whole lot worse. 

Leo looked devastated. “What happened up there? You made her mad? Is she mad at me too? Guys, that was my prom date!" 

“We’ll explain later,” Piper promised, but when she glanced at Jason, he realized she expected him to explain. 

What had happened up there? Jason wasn’t sure. Boreas had turned into Aquilon, his Roman form, as if Jason’s presence caused him to go 
schizophrenic. 

The idea that Jason had been sent to Camp Half-Blood seemed to amuse the god, but Boreas/Aquilon hadn’t let them go out of kindness. Cruel 
excitement had danced in his eyes, as if he’d just placed a bet on a dogfight. 

You will tear each other apart, he’d said with delight. Aeolus will never have to worry about demigods again. 

Jason looked away from Piper, trying not to show how unnerved he was. “Yeah,” he agreed, “we’ll explain later.” 

“Be careful, pretty girl,” Zethes said. “The winds between here and Chicago are bad-tempered. Many other evil things are stirring. I am sorry you will 
not be staying. You would make a lovely ice statue, in which I could check my reflection.” 

“Thanks,” Piper said. “But I’d sooner play hockey with Cal.” 

“Hockey?” Cal’s eyes lit up. 

“Joking,” Piper said. “And the storm winds aren’t our worst problem, are they?” 

“Oh, no,” Zethes agreed. “Something else. Something worse.” 

“Worse,” Cal echoed. 




“Can you tell me?” Piper gave them a smile. 

This time, the charm didn’t work. The purple-winged Boreads shook their heads in unison. The hangar doors opened onto a freezing starry night, and 
Festus the dragon stomped his feet, anxious to fly. 

“Ask Aeolus what is worse,” Zethes said darkly. “He knows. Good luck.” 

He almost sounded like he cared what happened to them, even though a few minutes ago he’d wanted to make Piper into an ice sculpture. 

Cal patted Leo on the shoulder. “Don’t get destroyed,” he said, which was probably the longest sentence he’d ever attempted. “Next time — hockey. 
Pizza.” 

“Come on, guys.” Jason stared out at the dark. He was anxious to get out of that cold penthouse, but he had a feeling it was the most hospitable 
place they’d see for a while. “Let’s go to Chicago and try not to get destroyed.” 




X X I 



PIPER 

Piper didn’t relax until the glow of Quebec City faded behind them. 

“Nt>u were amazing,” Jason told her. 

The compliment should’ve made her day. But all she could think about was the trouble ahead. Evil things are stirring, Zethes had warned them. She 
knew that firsthand. The closer they got to the solstice, the less time Piper had to make her decision. 

She told Jason in French: “If you knew the truth about me, you wouldn’t think I was so amazing.” 

“What’d you say?” he asked. 

“I said I only talked to Boreas. It wasn't so amazing.” 

She didn’t turn to look, but she imagined him smiling. 

“Hey,” he said, “you saved me from joining Khione’s subzero hero collection. I owe you one.” 

That was definitely the easy part, she thought. There was no way Piper would’ve let that ice witch keep Jason. What bothered Piper more was the 
way Boreas had changed form, and why he’d let them go. It had something to do with Jason’s past, those tattoos on his arm. Boreas assumed Jason was 
some sort of Roman, and Romans didn't mix with Greeks. She kept waiting for Jason to offer an explanation, but he clearly didn’t want to talk about it. 

Until now, Piper had been able to dismiss Jason’s feeling that he didn’t belong at Camp Half-Blood. Obviously he was a demigod. Of course he 
belonged. But now ... what if he was something else? What if he really was an enemy? She couldn’t stand that idea any more than she could stand 
Khione. 

Leo passed them some sandwiches from his pack. He’d been quiet ever since they’d told him what happened in the throne room. “I still can’t believe 
Khione,” he said. “She looked so nice." 

“Trust me, man,” Jason said. “Snow may be pretty, but up close it’s cold and nasty. We’ll find you a better prom date.” 

Piper smiled, but Leo didn’t look pleased. He hadn’t said much about his time in the palace, or why the Boreads had singled him out for smelling like 
fire. Piper got the feeling he was hiding something. Whatever it was, his mood seemed to be affecting Festus, who grumbled and steamed as he tried to 
keep himself warm in the cold Canadian air. Happy the Dragon was not so happy. 

They ate their sandwiches as they flew. Piper had no idea how Leo had stocked up on supplies, but he’d even remembered to bring veggie rations 
for her. The cheese and avocado sandwich was awesome. 

Nobody talked. Whatever they might find in Chicago, they all knew Boreas had only let them go because he figured they were already on a suicide 
mission. 

The moon rose and stars turned overhead. Piper’s eyes started to feel heavy. The encounter with Boreas and his children had scared her more than 
she wanted to admit. Now that she had a full stomach, her adrenaline was fading. 

Suck it up, cupcake! Coach Hedge would’ve yelled at her. Don’t be a wimp! 

Piper had been thinking about the coach ever since Boreas mentioned he was still alive. She’d never liked Hedge, but he’d leaped off a cliff to save 
Leo, and he’d sacrificed himself to protect them on the skywalk. She now realized that all the times at school the coach had pushed her, yelled at her to 
run faster or do more push-ups, or even when he’d turned his back and let her fight her own battles with the mean girls, the old goat man had been trying 
to help her in his own irritating way — trying to prepare her for life as a demigod. 

On the skywalk, Dylan the storm spirit had said something about the coach, too: how he’d been retired to Wilderness School because he was getting 
too old, like it was some sort of punishment. Piper wondered what that was about, and if it explained why the coach was always so grumpy. Whatever the 
truth, now that Piper knew Hedge was alive, she had a strong compulsion to save him. 

Don’t get ahead of yourself, she chided. You’ve got bigger problems. This trip won’t have a happy ending. 

She was a traitor, just like Silena Beauregard. It was only a matter of time before her friends found out. 

She looked up at the stars and thought about a night long ago when she and her dad had camped out in front of Grandpa Tom’s house. Grandpa Tom 
had died years before, but Dad had kept his house in Oklahoma because it was where he grew up. 

They’d gone back for a few days, with the idea of getting the place fixed up to sell, although Piper wasn’t sure who’d want to buy a run-down cabin 
with shutters instead of windows and two tiny rooms that smelled like cigars. The first night had been so stifling hot — no air conditioning in the middle of 
August — that Dad suggested they sleep outside. 

They’d spread their sleeping bags and listened to the cicadas buzzing in the trees. Piper pointed out the constellations she’d been reading about 
— Hercules, Apollo’s lyre, Sagittarius the centaur. 

Her dad crossed his arms behind his head. In his old T-shirt and jeans he looked like just another guy from Tahlequah, Oklahoma, a Cherokee who 
might’ve never left tribal lands. “\fc>ur grandpa would say those Greek patterns are a bunch of bull. He told me the stars were creatures with glowing fur, like 
magic hedgehogs. Once, long ago, some hunters even captured a few in the forest. They didn’t know what they’d done until nighttime, when the star 
creatures began to glow. Golden sparks flew from their fur, so the Cherokee released them back into the sky.” 

“\t>u believe in magic hedgehogs?” Piper asked. 

Her dad laughed. “I think Grandpa Tom was full of bull, too, just like the Greeks. But it’s a big sky. I suppose there’s room for Hercules and 
hedgehogs.” 

They sat for a while, until Piper got the nerve to ask a question that had been bugging her. “Dad, why don’t you ever play Native American parts?” 

The week before, he’d turned down several million dollars to play Tonto in a remake of The Lone Ranger. Piper was still trying to figure out why. He’d 
played all kinds of roles — a Latino teacher in a tough L.A. school, a dashing Israeli spy in an action-adventure blockbuster, even a Syrian terrorist in a 
James Bond movie. And, of course, he would always be known as the King of Sparta. But if the part was Native American — it didn’t matter what kind of 
role it was — Dad turned it down. 

He winked at her. “Too close to home, Pipes. Easier to pretend I’m something I’m not.” 

“Doesn’t that get old? Aren’t you ever tempted, like, if you found the perfect part that could change people’s opinions?” 

“If there’s a part like that, Pipes,” he said sadly, “I haven’t found it.” 

She looked at the stars, trying to imagine them as glowing hedgehogs. All she saw were the stick figures she knew — Hercules running across the 
sky, on his way to kill monsters. Dad was probably right. The Greeks and the Cherokee were equally crazy. The stars were just balls of fire. 

“Dad,” she said, “if you don’t like being close to home, why are we sleeping in Grandpa Tom’s yard?” 



His laughter echoed in the quiet Oklahoma night. “I think you know me too well, Pipes.” 

“Ntru’re not really going to sell this place, are you?” 

“Nope,” he sighed. “I’m probably not.” 

Piper blinked, shaking herself out of the memory. She realized she’d been falling asleep on the dragon’s back. How could her dad pretend to be so 
many things he wasn’t? She was trying to do that now, and it was tearing her apart. 

Maybe she could pretend for a little while longer. She could dream of finding a way to save her father without betraying her friends — even if right now 
a happy ending seemed about as likely as magic hedgehogs. 

She leaned back against Jason’s warm chest. He didn’t complain. As soon she closed her eyes, she drifted off to sleep. 

In her dream, she was back on the mountaintop. The ghostly purple bonfire cast shadows across the trees. Piper's eyes stung from smoke, and the 
ground was so warm, the soles of her boots felt sticky. 

A voice from the dark rumbled, “You forget your duty.” 

Piper couldn't see him, but it was definitely her least favorite giant — the one who called himself Enceladus. She looked around for any sign of her 
father, but the pole where he’d been chained was no longer there. 

“Where is he?” she demanded. “What’ve you done with him?” 

The giant’s laugh was like lava hissing down a volcano. “His body is safe enough, though I fear the poor man’s mind can’t take much more of my 
company. For some reason he finds me — disturbing. \bu must hurry, girl, or I fear there will be little left of him to save.” 

“Let him go!” she screamed. “Take me instead. He’s just a mortal!” 

“But, my dear,” the giant rumbled, “we must prove our love for our parents. That’s what I’m doing. Show me you value your father’s life by doing what I 
ask. Who’s more important — your father, or a deceitful goddess who used you, toyed with your emotions, manipulated your memories, eh? What is Hera 
to you?" 

Piper began to tremble. So much anger and fear boiled inside her, she could hardly talk. “You’re asking me to betray my friends.” 

“Sadly, my dear, your friends are destined to die. Their quest is impossible. Even if you succeeded, you heard the prophecy: unleashing Hera’s rage 
would mean your destruction. The only question now — will you die with your friends, or live with your father?” 

The bonfire roared. Piper tried to step back, but her feet were heavy. She realized the ground was pulling her down, clinging to her boots like wet 
sand. When she looked up, a shower of purple sparks had spread across the sky, and the sun was rising in the east. A patchwork of cities glowed in the 
valley below, and far to the west, over a line of rolling hills, she saw a familiar landmark rising from a sea of fog. 

“Why are you showing me this?” Piper asked. “Ntiu’re revealing where you are.” 

“Nfes, you know this place,” the giant said. “Lead your friends here instead of their true destination, and I will deal with them. Or even better, arrange 
their deaths before you arrive. I don’t care which. Just be at the summit by noon on the solstice, and you may collect your father and go in peace.” 

“I can’t,” Piper said. “Nt>u can’t ask me — ” 

“To betray that foolish boy Valdez, who always irritated you and is now hiding secrets from you? To give up a boyfriend you never really had? Is that 
more important than your own father?” 

“I’ll find a way to defeat you,” Piper said. “I’ll save my father and my friends.” 

The giant growled in the shadows. “I was once proud too. I thought the gods could never defeat me. Then they hurled a mountain on top of me, 
crushed me into the ground, where I struggled for eons, half-conscious in pain. That taught me patience, girl. It taught me not to act rashly. Now I’ve clawed 
my way back with the help of the waking earth. I am only the first. My brethren will follow. We will not be denied our vengeance — not this time. And you, 
Piper McLean, need a lesson in humility. I'll show you how easily your rebellious spirit can be brought to earth." 

The dream dissolved. And Piper woke up screaming, free-falling through the air. 




XXII 



PIPER 

Piper thumbled through the sky Far below she saw city lights glimmering in the early dawn, and several hundred yards away the body of the bronze 
dragon spinning out of control, its wings limp, fire flickering in its mouth like a badly wired lightbulb. 

A body shot past her — Leo, screaming and frantically grabbing at the clouds. “Not coooooool!” 

She tried to call to him, but he was already too far below. 

Somewhere above her, Jason yelled, “Piper, level out! Extend your arms and legs!” 

It was hard to control her fear, but she did what he said and regained some balance. She fell spread-eagle like a skydiver, the wind underneath her 
like a solid block of ice. Then Jason was there, wrapping his arms around her waist. 

Thank god, Piper thought. But part of her also thought: Great. Second time this week he’s hugged me, and both times it’s because I’m plummeting to 
my death. 

“We have to get Leo!” she shouted. 

Their fall slowed as Jason controlled the winds, but they still lurched up and down like the winds didn’t want to cooperate. 

“Gonna get rough,” Jason warned. “Hold on!” 

Piper locked her arms around him, and Jason shot toward the ground. Piper probably screamed, but the sound was ripped from her mouth. Her 
vision blurred. 

And then, thump! They slammed into another warm body — Leo, still wriggling and cursing. 

“Stop fighting!” Jason said. “It’s me!” 

“My dragon!” Leo yelled. “\bu gotta save Festus!” 

Jason was already struggling to keep the three of them aloft, and Piper knew there was no way he could help a fifty-ton metal dragon. But before she 
could try to reason with Leo, she heard an explosion below them. A fireball rolled into the sky from behind a warehouse complex, and Leo sobbed, 
“Festus!” 

Jason’s face reddened with strain as he tried to maintain an air cushion beneath them, but intermittent slow-downs were the best he could manage. 
Rather than free-falling, it felt like they were bouncing down a giant staircase, a hundred feet at a time, which wasn’t doing Piper’s stomach any favors. 

As they wobbled and zigzagged, Piper could make out details of the factory complex below — warehouses, smokestacks, barbed-wire fences, and 
parking lots lined with snow-covered vehicles. They were still high enough so that hitting the ground would flatten them into roadkill — or skykill — when 
Jason groaned, “I can’t — ” 

And they dropped like stones. 

They hit the roof of the largest warehouse and crashed through into darkness. 

Unfortunately, Piper tried to land on her feet. Her feet didn’t like that. Pain flared in her left ankle as she crumpled against a cold metal surface. 

For a few seconds she wasn’t conscious of anything but pain — pain so bad that her ears rang and her vision went red. 

Then she heard Jason’s voice somewhere below, echoing through the building. “Piper! Where’s Piper?” 

“Ow, bro!” Leo groaned. “That’s my back! I’m not a sofa! Piper, where’d you go?” 

“Here,” she managed, her voice a whimper. 

She heard shuffling and grunting, then feet pounding on metal steps. 

Her vision began to clear. She was on a metal catwalk that ringed the warehouse interior. Leo and Jason had landed on ground level, and were now 
coming up the stairs toward her. She looked at her foot, and wave of nausea swept over her. Her toes weren’t supposed to point that way, were they? 

Oh, god. She forced herself to look away before she threw up. Focus on something else. Anything else. 

The hole they’d made in the roof was a ragged starburst twenty feet above. How they’d even survived that drop, she had no idea. Hanging from the 
ceiling, a few electric bulbs flickered dimly, but they didn’t do much to light the enormous space. Next to Piper, the corrugated metal wall was emblazoned 
with a company logo, but it was almost completely spray-painted over with graffiti. Down in the shadowy warehouse, she could make out huge machines, 
robotic arms, half-finished trucks on an assembly line. The place looked like it had been abandoned for years. 

Jason and Leo reached her side. 

Leo started to ask, “Nt>u okay ... ?” Then he saw her foot. “Oh no, you’re not.” 

“Thanks for the reassurance,” Piper groaned. 

“Nbu’ll be fine,” Jason said, though Piper could hear the worry in his voice. “Leo, you got any first aid supplies?” 

“>feah — yeah, sure.” He dug around in his tool belt and pulled out a wad of gauze and a roll of duct tape — both of which seemed too big for the belt’s 
pockets. Piper had noticed the tool belt yesterday morning, but she hadn’t thought to ask Leo about it. It didn’t look like anything special — just one of those 
wraparound leather aprons with a bunch of pockets, like a blacksmith or a carpenter might wear. And it seemed to be empty. 

“How did you — ” Piper tried to sit up, and winced. “How did pull that stuff from an empty belt?” 

“Magic,” Leo said. “Haven’t figure it out completely, but I can summon just about any regular tool out of the pockets, plus some other helpful stuff.” He 
reached into another pocket and pulled out a little tin box. “Breath mint?” 

Jason snatched away the mints. “That’s great, Leo. Now, can you fix her foot?” 

“I’m a mechanic, man. Maybe if she was a car ...” He snapped his fingers. “Wait, what was that godly healing stuffthey fed you at camp — Rambo 
food?” 

“Ambrosia, dummy,” Piper said through gritted teeth. “There should be some in my bag, if it’s not crushed.” 

Jason carefully pulled her backpack off her shoulders. He rummaged through the supplies the Aphrodite kids had packed for her, and found a Ziploc 
full of smashed pastry squares like lemon bars. He broke off a piece and fed it to her. 

The taste was nothing like she expected. It reminded her of Dad’s black bean soup from when she was a little girl. He used to feed it to her whenever 
she got sick. The memory relaxed her, though it made her sad. The pain in her ankle subsided. 

“More,” she said. 

Jason frowned. “Piper, we shouldn’t risk it. They said too much could burn you up. I think I should try to set your foot.” 

Piper’s stomach fluttered. “Have you ever done that before?” 

“Yeah ... I think so." 



Leo found an old piece of wood and broke it in half for a splint. Then he got the gauze and duct tape ready. 

“Hold her leg still,” Jason told him. “Piper, this is going to hurt.” 

When Jason set the foot, Piper flinched so hard she punched Leo in the arm, and he yelled almost as much as she did. When her vision cleared and 
she could breathe normally again, she found that her foot was pointing the right way, her ankle splinted with plywood, gauze, and duct tape. 

“Ow,” she said. 

“Jeez, beauty queen!” Leo rubbed his arm. “Glad my face wasn’t there.” 

“Sorry,” she said. “And don’t call me ‘beauty queen,’ or I’ll punch you again.” 

“Nt>u both did great.” Jason found a canteen in Piper’s pack and gave her some water. After a few minutes, her stomach began to calm down. 

Once she wasn’t screaming in pain, she could hear the wind howling outside. Snowflakes fluttered through the hole in the roof, and after their meeting 
with Khione, snow was the last thing Piper wanted to see. 

“What happened to the dragon?” she asked. “Where are we?" 

Leo’s expression turned sullen. “I don’t know with Festus. He just jerked sideways like he hit an invisible wall and started to fall.” 

Piper remembered Enceladus’s warning: I’ll showyou how easily your rebellious spirit can be brought to earth. Had he managed to strike them 
down from so far away? It seemed impossible. If he were that powerful, why would he need her to betray her friends when he could just kill them himself? 
And how could the giant be keeping an eye on her in a snowstorm thousands of miles away? 

Leo pointed to the logo on the wall. “As far as where we are ...” It was hard to see through the graffiti, but Piper could make out a large red eye with 
the stenciled words: monocle motors, assembly plant 1 . 

“Closed car plant,” Leo said. “I’m guessing we crash-landed in Detroit.” 

Piper had heard about closed car plants in Detroit, so that made sense. But it seemed like a pretty depressing place to land. “How far is that from 
Chicago?” 

Jason handed her the canteen. “Maybe three-fourths of the way from Quebec? The thing is, without the dragon, we’re stuck traveling overland." 

“No way,” Leo said. “It isn’t safe.” 

Piper thought about the way the ground had pulled at her feet in the dream, and what King Boreas had said about the earth yielding up more horrors. 
“He’s right. Besides, I don’t know if I can walk. And three people — Jason, you can’t fly that many across country by yourself.” 

“No way,” Jason said. “Leo, are you sure the dragon didn’t malfunction? I mean, Festus is old, and — ” 

“And I might not have repaired him right?” 

“I didn’t say that," Jason protested. “It’s just — maybe you could fix it.” 

“I don’t know.” Leo sounded crestfallen. He pulled a few screws out of his pockets and started fiddling with them. “I’d have to find where he landed, if 
he’s even in one piece.” 

“It was my fault.” Piper said without thinking. She just couldn’t stand it anymore. The secret about her father was heating up inside her like too much 
ambrosia. If she kept lying to her friends, she felt like she’d burn to ashes. 

“Piper,” Jason said gently, “you were asleep when Festus conked out. It couldn’t be your fault.” 

“\feah, you’re just shaken up,” Leo agreed. He didn't even try to make a joke at her expense. “You’re in pain. Just rest.” 

She wanted to tell them everything, but the words stuck in her throat. They were both being so kind to her. Yet if Enceladus was watching her 
somehow, saying the wrong thing could get her father killed. 

Leo stood. “Look, urn, Jason, why don’t you stay with her, bro? I’ll scout around for Festus. I think he fell outside the warehouse somewhere. If I can 
find him, maybe I can figure out what happened and fix him.” 

“It’s too dangerous,” Jason said. “\bu shouldn’t go by yourself.” 

“Ah, I got duct tape and breath mints. I’ll be fine,” Leo said, a little too quickly, and Piper realized he was a lot more shaken up than he was letting on. 
“\bu guys just don't run off without me.” 

Leo reached into his magic tool belt, pulled out a flashlight, and headed down the stairs, leaving Piper and Jason alone. 

Jason gave her a smile, though he looked kind of nervous. It was the exact expression he’d had on his face after he’d kissed her the first time, up on 
the Wilderness School dorm roof — that cute little scar on his lip curving into a crescent. The memory gave her a warm feeling. Then she remembered that 
the kiss had never really happened. 

“Nt>u look better,” Jason offered. 

Piper wasn’t sure if he meant her foot, or the fact that she wasn’t magically beautified anymore. Her jeans were tattered from the fall through the roof. 
Her boots were splattered with melted dirty snow. She didn't know what her face looked like, but probably horrible. 

Why did it matter? She’d never cared about things like that before. She wondered if it was her stupid mother, the goddess of love, messing with her 
thoughts. If Piper started getting urges to read fashion magazines, she was going to have to find Aphrodite and smack her. 

She decided to focus on her ankle instead. As long as she didn’t move it, the pain wasn’t bad. “Nt>u did a good job,” she told Jason. “Where’d you 
learn first aid?” 

He shrugged. “Same answer as always. I don’t know.” 

“But you’re starting to have some memories, aren’t you? Like that prophecy in Latin back at camp, or that dream about the wolf.” 

“It’s fuzzy,” he said. “Like deja vu. Ever forgotten a word or a name, and you know it should be on the tip of your tongue, but it isn't? It’s like that — only 
with my whole life.” 

Piper sort of knew what he meant. The last three months — a life she thought she’d had, a relationship with Jason — had turned out to be Mist. 

A boyfriend you never really had , Enceladus had said. Is that more important than your own father? 

She should’ve kept her mouth shut, but she voiced the question that had been on her mind since yesterday. 

“That photo in your pocket,” she said. “Is that someone from your past?” 

Jason pulled back. 

“I’m sorry,” she said. “None of my business. Forget it.” 

“No — it’s okay.” His features relaxed. “Just, I’m trying to figure things out. Her name’s Thalia. She’s my sister. I don’t remember any details. I’m not 
even sure how I know, but — urn, why are you smiling?” 

“Nothing.” Piper tried to kill the smile. Notan old girlfriend. She felt ridiculously happy. “Urn, it’s just — that’s great you remembered. Annabeth told me 
she became a Hunter of Artemis, right?” 

Jason nodded. “I get the feeling I’m supposed to find her. Hera left me that memory for a reason. It’s got something to do with this quest. But ... I also 
have the feeling it could be dangerous. I’m not sure I want to find out the truth. Is that crazy?” 

“No,” Piper said. “Not at all.” 

She stared at the logo on the wall: monocle motors, the single red eye. Something about that logo bothered her. 

Maybe it was the idea Enceladus was watching her, holding her father for leverage. She had to save him, but how could she betray her friends? 
“Jason,” she said. “Speaking of the truth, I need to tell you something — something about my dad — ” 




She didn’t get the chance. Somewhere below, metal clanged against metal, like a door slamming shut. The sound echoed through the warehouse. 
Jason stood. He took out his coin and flipped it, snatching his golden sword out of the air. He peered over the railing. “Leo?” he called. 

No answer. 

He crouched next to Piper. “I don’t like this.” 

“He could be in trouble,” Piper said. “Go check.” 

“I can’t leave you alone.” 

“I’ll be fine.” She felt terrified, but she wasn’t about to admit it. She drew her dagger Katoptris and tried to look confident. “Anyone gets close, I'll 
skewer them.” 

Jason hesitated. “I’ll leave you the pack. If I’m not back in five minutes — ” 

“Panic?” she suggested. 

He managed a smile. “Glad you’re back to normal. The makeup and the dress were a lot more intimidating than the dagger.” 

“Get going, Sparky, before I skewer you." 

“Sparky?” 

Even offended, Jason looked hot. It wasn’tfair. Then he made his way to the stairs and disappeared into the dark. 

Piper counted her breaths, trying to gauge how much time had passed. She lost track at around forty-three. Then something in the warehouse went 
bang! 

The echo died. Piper’s heart pounded, but she didn’t call out. Her instincts told her it might not be a good idea. 

She stared at her splinted ankle. It’s not like I can run. Then she looked up again at the Monocle Motors sign. A little voice in her head pestered her, 
warning of danger. Something from Greek mythology ... 

Her hand went to her backpack. She took out the ambrosia squares. Too much would burn her up, but would a little more fix her ankle? 

Boom. The sound was closer this time, directly below her. She dug out a whole square of ambrosia and stuffed it in her mouth. Her heart raced faster. 
Her skin felt feverish. 

Hesitantly, she flexed her ankle against the splint. No pain, no stiffness at all. She cut through the duct tape with her dagger and heard heavy steps on 
the stairs — like metal boots. 

Had it been five minutes? Longer? The steps didn't sound like Jason, but maybe he was carrying Leo. Finally she couldn’t stand it. Gripping her 
dagger, she called out, “Jason?” 

“Nfeah,” he said from the darkness. “On my way up.” 

Definitely Jason's voice. So why did all her instincts say Run 1 
With effort, she got to her feet. 

The steps came closer. 

“It’s okay,” Jason's voice promised. 

At the top of the stairs, a face appeared out of the darkness — a hideous black grin, a smashed nose, and a single bloodshot eye in the middle of his 
forehead. 

“It’s fine,” the Cyclops said, in a perfect imitation of Jason’s voice. “>bu’re just in time for dinner.” 




XXIII 

LEO 



Leo WISHED THE DRAGON HADN’T LANDED on the toilets. 

Of all the places to crash, a line of Porta-Potties would not have been his first choice. A dozen of the blue plastic boxes had been set up in the factory 
yard, and Festus had flattened them all. Fortunately, they hadn’t been used in a long time, and the fireball from the crash incinerated most of the contents; 
but still, there were some pretty gross chemicals leaking out of the wreckage. Leo had to pick his way through and try not to breathe through his nose. 
Heavy snow was coming down, but the dragon’s hide was still steaming hot. Of course, that didn’t bother Leo. 

After a few minutes climbing over Festus’s inanimate body, Leo started to get irritated. The dragon looked perfectly fine. Yes, it had fallen out of the 
sky and landed with a big ka-boom, but its body wasn't even dented. The fireball had apparently come from built up gasses inside the toilet units, not from 
the dragon itself. Festus’s wings were intact. Nothing seemed broken. There was no reason it should have stopped. 

“Not my fault,” he muttered. “Festus, you’re making me look bad.” 

Then he opened the control panel on the dragon’s head, and Leo’s heart sank. “Oh, Festus, what the heck?” 

The wiring had frozen over. Leo knew it had been okay yesterday. He’d worked so hard to repair the corroded lines, but something had caused a 
flash freeze inside the dragon’s skull, where it should’ve been too hot for ice to form. The ice had caused the wiring to overload and char the control disk. 
Leo couldn’t see any reason that would’ve happened. Sure, the dragon was old, but still, it didn't make sense. 

He could replace the wires. That wasn’t the problem. But the charred control disk was not good. The Greek letters and pictures carved around the 
edges, which probably held all kinds of magic, were blurred and blackened. 

The one piece of hardware Leo couldn’t replace — and it was damaged. Again. 

He imagined his mom’s voice: Most problems look worse than they are, mijo. Nothing is unfixable. 

His mom could repair just about anything, but Leo was pretty sure she’d never worked on a fifty-year-old magic metal dragon. 

He clenched his teeth and decided he had to try. He wasn’t walking from Detroit to Chicago in a snowstorm, and he wasn’t going to be responsible 
for stranding his friends. 

“Right,” he muttered, brushing the snow off his shoulders. 

“Gimme a nylon bristle detail brush, some nitrile gloves, and maybe a can of that aerosol cleaning solvent.” 

The tool belt obliged. Leo couldn’t help smiling as he pulled out the supplies. The belt’s pockets did have limits. They wouldn’t give him anything 
magic, like Jason’s sword, or anything huge, like a chain saw. He'd tried asking for both. And if he asked for too many things at once, the belt needed a 
cooldown time before it could work again. The more complicated the request, the longer the cooldown. But anything small and simple like you might find 
around a workshop — all Leo had to do was ask. 

He began cleaning off the control disk. While he worked, snow collected on the cooling dragon. Leo had to stop from time to time to summon fire and 
melt it away, but mostly he went into autopilot mode, his hands working by themselves as his thoughts wandered. 

Leo couldn’t believe how stupid he’d acted back at Boreas’s palace. He should’ve figured a family of winter gods would hate him on sight. Son of the 
fire god flying a fire-breathing dragon into an ice penthouse — yeah, maybe not the best move. Still, he hated feeling like a reject. Jason and Piper got to 
visit the throne room. Leo got to wait in the lobby with Cal, the demigod of hockey and major head injuries. 

Fire is bad, Cal had told him. 

That pretty much summed it up. Leo knew he couldn’t keep the truth from his friends much longer. Ever since Camp Half-Blood, one line of that Great 
Prophecy kept coming back to him: To storm or fire the world must fall. 

And Leo was the fire guy, the first one since 1666 when London had burned down. If he told his friends what he could really do — Hey, guess what, 
guys? I might destroy the world! — why would anyone welcome him back at camp? Leo would have to go on the run again. Even though he knew that drill, 
the idea depressed him. 

Then there was Khione. Dang, that girl was fine. Leo knew he’d acted like a total fool, but he couldn’t help himself. He’d had his clothes cleaned with 
the one-hour valet service — which had been totally sweet, by the way. He’d combed his hair — never an easy job — and even discovered the tool bag could 
make breath mints, all in hopes that he could get close to her. Naturally, no such luck. 

Getting frozen out — story of his life — by his relatives, foster homes, you name it. Even at Wilderness School, Leo had spent the last few weeks feeling 
like a third wheel as Jason and Piper, his only friends, became a couple. He was happy for them and all, but still it made him feel like they didn’t need him 
anymore. 

When he’d found out that Jason’s whole time at school had been an illusion — a kind of a memory burp — Leo had been secretly excited. It was a 
chance for a reset. Now Jason and Piper were heading toward being a couple again — that was obvious from the way they’d acted in the warehouse just 
now, like they wanted to talk in private without Leo around. What had he expected? He’d wind up the odd man out again. Khione had just given him the 
cold shoulder a little quicker than most. 

“Enough, Valdez,” he scolded himself. “Nobody’s going to play any violins for you just because you’re not important. Fixthe stupid dragon.” 

He got so involved with his work, he wasn’t sure how much time had passed before he heard the voice. 

You’re wrong, Leo, it said. 

He fumbled his brush and dropped it into the dragon’s head. He stood, but he couldn’t see who’d spoken. Then he looked at the ground. Snow and 
chemical sludge from the toilets, even the asphalt itself was shifting like it was turning to liquid. A ten-foot-wide area formed eyes, a nose, and a mouth 
— the giant face of a sleeping woman. 

She didn’t exactly speak. Her lips didn’t move. But Leo could hear her voice in his head, as if the vibrations were coming through the ground, straight 
into his feet and resonating up his skeleton. 

They need you desperately, she said. In some ways, you are the most important of the seven — like the control disk in the dragon’s brain. Without 
you, the power of the others means nothing. They will never reach me, never stop me. And I will fully woke. 

“\t>u.” Leo was shaking so badly he wasn’t sure he’d spoken aloud. He hadn’t heard that voice since he was eight, but it was her: the earthen woman 
from the machine shop. “Nt>u killed my mom.” 

The face shifted. The mouth formed a sleepy smile like it was having a pleasant dream. Ah, but Leo. I am your mother too — the First Mother. Do not 
oppose me. Walk away now Let my son Porphyrion rise and become king, and I will ease your burdens. You will tread lightly on the earth. 



Leo grabbed the nearest thing he could find — a Porta-Potty seat — and threw it at the face. “Leave me alone!" 

The toilet seat sank into the liquid earth. Snow and sludge rippled, and the face dissolved. 

Leo stared at the ground, waiting for the face to reappear. But it didn’t. Leo wanted to think he’d imagined it. 

Then from the direction of the factory, he heard a crash — like two dump trucks slamming together. Metal crumpled and groaned, and the noise 
echoed across the yard. Instantly Leo knew that Jason and Piper were in trouble. 

Walk away novy the voice had urged. 

“Not likely,” Leo growled. “Gimme the biggest hammer you got.” 

He reached into his tool belt and pulled out a three-pound club hammer with a double-faced head the size of a baked potato. Then he jumped off the 
dragon’s back and ran toward the warehouse. 




XXIV 



LEO 

Leo stoppedat the doors and tried to control his breathing. The voice of the earth woman still rang in his ears, reminding him of his mother’s death. The 
last thing he wanted to do was plunge into another dark warehouse. Suddenly he felt eight years old again, alone and helpless as someone he cared 
about was trapped and in trouble. 

Stop it, he told himself. That’s how she wants you to feel. 

But that didn’t make him any less scared. He took a deep breath and peered inside. Nothing looked different. Gray morning light filtered through the 
hole in the roof. A few lightbulbs flickered, but most of the factory floor was still lost in shadows. He could make out the catwalk above, the dim shapes of 
heavy machinery along the assembly line, but no movement. No sign of his friends. 

He almost called out, but something stopped him — a sense he couldn’t identify. Then he realized it was smell. Something smelled wrong — like 
burning motor oil and sour breath. 

Something not human was inside the factory. Leo was certain. His body shifted into high gear, all his nerves tingling. 

Somewhere on the factory floor, Piper’s voice cried out: “Leo, help!” 

But Leo held his tongue. How could Piper have gotten offthe catwalk with her broken ankle? 

He slipped inside and ducked behind a cargo container. Slowly, gripping his hammer, he worked his way toward the center of the room, hiding 
behind boxes and hollow truck chassis. Finally he reached the assembly line. He crouched behind the nearest piece of machinery — a crane with a robotic 
arm. 

Piper’s voice called out again: “Leo?” Less certain this time, but very close. 

Leo peeked around the machinery. Hanging directly above the assembly line, suspended by a chain from a crane on the opposite side, was a 
massive truck engine — just dangling thirty feet up, as if it had been left there when the factory was abandoned. Below it on the conveyor belt sat a truck 
chassis, and clustered around it were three dark shapes the size of forklifts. Nearby, dangling from chains on two other robotic arms, were two smaller 
shapes — maybe more engines, but one of them was twisting around as if it were alive. 

Then one of the forklift shapes rose, and Leo realized it was a humanoid of massive size. “Told you it was nothing,” the thing rumbled. Its voice was 
too deep and feral to be human. 

One of the other forklift-sized lumps shifted, and called out in Piper’s voice: “Leo, help me! Help — ” Then the voice changed, becoming a masculine 
snarl. “Bah, there’s nobody out there. No demigod could be that quiet, eh?” 

The first monster chuckled. “Probably ran away, if he knows what’s good for him. Or the girl was lying about a third demigod. Let’s get cooking.” 

Snap. A bright orange light sizzled to life — an emergency flare — and Leo was temporarily blinded. He ducked behind the crane until the spots 
cleared from his eyes. Then he took another peep and saw a nightmare scene even Tia Callida couldn’t have dreamed up. 

The two smaller things dangling from crane arms weren’t engines. They were Jason and Piper. Both hung upside down, tied by their ankles and 
cocooned with chains up to their necks. Piper was flailing around, trying to free herself. Her mouth was gagged, but at least she was alive. Jason didn’t 
look so good. He hung limply, his eyes rolled up in his head. A red welt the size of an apple had swollen over his left eyebrow. 

On the conveyor belt, the bed of the unfinished pickup truck was being used as a fire pit. The emergency flare had ignited a mixture of tires and 
wood, which, from the smell of it, had been doused in kerosene. A big metal pole was suspended over the flames — a spit, Leo realized, which meant this 
was a cooking fire. 

But most terrifying of all were the cooks. 

Monocle Motors: that single red eye logo. Why hadn’t Leo realized? 

Three massive humanoids gathered around the fire. Two were standing, stoking the flames. The largest one crouched with his back to Leo. The two 
facing him were each ten feet tall, with hairy muscular bodies and skin that glowed red in the firelight. One of the monsters wore a chain mail loincloth that 
looked really uncomfortable. The other wore a ragged fuzzy toga made of fiberglass insulation, which also would not have made Leo’s top ten wardrobe 
ideas. Other than that, the two monsters could’ve been twins. Each had a brutish face with a single eye in the center of his forehead. The cooks were 
Cyclopes. 

Leo’s legs started quaking. He’d seen some weird things so far — storm spirits and winged gods and a metal dragon that liked Tabasco sauce. But 
this was different. These were actual, flesh-and-blood, ten-foot-tall living monsters who wanted to eat his friends for dinner. 

He was so terrified he could hardly think. If only he had Festus. He could use a fire-breathing sixty-foot-long tank about now. But all he had was a tool 
belt and a backpack. His three-pound club hammer looked awfully small compared to those Cyclopes. 

This is what the sleeping earth lady had been talking about. She wanted Leo to walk away and leave his friends to die. 

That decided it. No way was Leo going to let that earth lady make him feel powerless — never again. Leo slipped offhis backpack and quietly started 
to unzip it. 

The Cyclops in the chain mail loincloth walked over to Piper, who squirmed and tried to head-butt him in the eye. “Can I take her gag off now? I like it 
when they scream.” 

The question was directed at the third Cyclops, apparently the leader. The crouching figure grunted, and Loincloth ripped the gag off Piper’s mouth. 

She didn’t scream. She took a shaky breath like she was trying to keep herself calm. 

Meanwhile, Leo found what he wanted in the pack: a stack of tiny remote control units he’d picked up in Bunker 9. At least he hoped that’s what they 
were. The robotic crane’s maintenance panel was easy to find. He slipped a screwdriver from his tool belt and went to work, but he had to go slowly. The 
leader Cyclops was only twenty feet in front of him. The monsters obviously had excellent senses. Pulling off his plan without making noise seemed 
impossible, but he didn’t have much choice. 

The Cyclops in the toga poked at the fire, which was now blazing away and billowing noxious black smoke toward the ceiling. His buddy Loincloth 
glowered at Piper, waiting for her to do something entertaining. “Scream, girl! I like funny screaming!” 

When Piper finally spoke, her tone was calm and reasonable, like she was correcting a naughty puppy. “Oh, Mr. Cyclops, you don’t want to kill us. It 
would be much better if you let us go.” 

Loincloth scratched his ugly head. He turned to his friend in the fiberglass toga. “She’s kind of pretty, Torque. Maybe I should let her go.” 

Torque, the dude in the toga, growled. “I saw her first, Sump. Ill let her go!” Sump and Torque started to argue, but the third Cyclops rose and 
shouted, “Fools!” 



Leo almost dropped his screwdriver. The third Cyclops was a female. She was several feet taller than Torque or Sump, and even beefier. She wore a 
tent of chain mail cut like one of those sack dresses Leo’s mean Aunt Rosa used to wear. What’d they call that — a muumuu? Nfeah, the Cyclops lady had a 
chain mail muumuu. Her greasy black hair was matted in pigtails, woven with copper wires and metal washers. Her nose and mouth were thick and 
smashed together, like she spent her free time ramming her face into walls; but her single red eye glittered with evil intelligence. 

The woman Cyclops stalked over to Sump and pushed him aside, knocking him over the conveyor belt. Torque backed up quickly. 

“The girl is Venus spawn,” the lady Cyclops snarled. “She’s using charmspeak on you.” 

Piper started to say, “Please, ma’am — ” 

“Rarr!” The lady Cyclops grabbed Piper around the waist. “Don’t try your pretty talk on me, girl! I’m Ma Gasket! I've eaten heroes tougher than you for 
lunch!” 

Leo feared Piper would get crushed, but Ma Gasket just dropped her and let her dangle from her chain. Then she started yelling at Sump about how 
stupid he was. 

Leo’s hands worked furiously. He twisted wires and turned switches, hardly thinking about what he was doing. He finished attaching the remote. Then 
he crept over to the next robotic arm while the Cyclopes were talking. 

“ — eat her last, Ma?” Sump was saying. 

“Idiot!” Ma Gasket yelled, and Leo realized Sump and Torque must be her sons. If so, ugly definitely ran in the family. “I should’ve thrown you out on the 
streets when you were babies, like proper Cyclops children. You might have learned some useful skills. Curse my soft heart that I kept you!” 

“Soft heart?” Torque muttered. 

“What was that, you ingrate?” 

“Nothing, Ma. I said you got a soft heart. We get to work for you, feed you, file your toenails — ” 

“And you should be grateful!” Ma Gasket bellowed. “Now, stoke the fire, Torque! And Sump, you idiot, my case of salsa is in the other warehouse. 

Don’t tell me you expect me to eat these demigods without salsa!” 

“\fes, Ma,” Sump said. “I mean no, Ma. I mean — ” 

“Go get it!” Ma Gasket picked up a nearby truck chassis and slammed it over Sump’s head. Sump crumpled to his knees. Leo was sure a hit like that 
would kill him, but Sump apparently got hit by trucks a lot. He managed to push the chassis off his head. Then he staggered to his feet and ran offto fetch 
the salsa. 

Now’s the time, Leo thought. While they’re separated. 

He finished wiring the second machine and moved toward a third. As he dashed between robotic arms, the Cyclopes didn’t see him, but Piper did. 
Her expression turned from terror to disbelief, and she gasped. 

Ma Gasket turned to her. “What’s the matter, girl? So fragile I broke you?” 

Thankfully, Piper was a quick thinker. She looked away from Leo and said, “I think it’s my ribs, ma’am. If I’m busted up inside, I’ll taste terrible.” 

Ma Gasket bellowed with laughter. “Good one. The last hero we ate — remember him, Torque? Son of Mercury, wasn't he?” 

“\fes, Ma,” Torque said. “Tasty. Little bit stringy." 

“He tried a trick like that. Said he was on medication. But he tasted fine!” 

“Tasted like mutton,” Torque recalled. “Purple shirt. Talked in Latin. >fes, a bit stringy, but good.” 

Leo’s fingers froze on the maintenance panel. Apparently, Piper was having the same thought he was, because she asked, “Purple shirt? Latin?” 
“Good eating,” Ma Gasket said fondly. “Point is, girl, we're not as dumb as people think! We’re not falling for those stupid tricks and riddles, not us 
northern Cyclopes.” 

Leo forced himself back to work, but his mind was racing. A kid who spoke Latin had been caught here — in a purple shirt like Jason’s? He didn’t 
know what that meant, but he had to leave the interrogation to Piper. If he was going to have any chance of defeating these monsters, he had to move fast 
before Sump came back with the salsa. 

He looked up at the engine block suspended right above the Cyclopes’ campsite. He wished he could use that — it would make a great weapon. But 
the crane holding it was on the opposite side of the conveyor belt. There was no way Leo could get over there without being seen, and besides, he was 
running short on time. 

The last part of his plan was the trickiest. From his tool belt he summoned some wires, a radio adapter, and a smaller screwdriver and started to 
build a universal remote. For the first time, he said a silent thank-you to his dad — Hephaestus — for the magic tool belt. Get me out of here, he prayed, 
and maybe you’re not such a jerk. 

Piper kept talking, laying on the praise. “Oh, I’ve heard about the northern Cyclopes!” Which Leo figured was bull, but she sounded convincing. “I 
never knew you were so big and clever!" 

“Flattery won’t work either,” Ma Gasket said, though she sounded pleased. “It’s true, you’ll be breakfast for the best Cyclopes around.” 

“But aren’t Cyclopes good?” Piper asked. “I thought you made weapons for the gods." 

“Bah! I’m very good. Good at eating people. Good at smashing. And good at building things, yes, but not for the gods. Our cousins, the elder 
Cyclopes, they do this, yes. Thinking they’re so high and mighty ’cause they’re a few thousand years older. Then there’s our southern cousins, living on 
islands and tending sheep. Morons! But we Hyperborean Cyclopes, the northern clan, we’re the best! Founded Monocle Motors in this old factory — the 
best weapons, armor, chariots, fuel-efficient SUVs! And yet — bah! Forced to shut down. Laid off most of our tribe. The war was too quick. Titans lost. No 
good! No more need for Cyclops weapons.” 

“Oh, no,” Piper sympathized. “I’m sure you made some amazing weapons.” 

Torque grinned. “Squeaky war hammer!” He picked up a large pole with an accordion-looking metal box on the end. 

He slammed it against the floor and the cement cracked, but there was also a sound like the world’s largest rubber ducky getting stomped. 
“Terrifying,” Piper said. 

Torque looked pleased. “Not as good as the exploding ax, but this one can be used more than once.” 

“Can I see it?” Piper asked. “If you could just free my hands — ’’ 

Torque stepped forward eagerly, but Ma Gasket said, “Stupid! She’s tricking you again. Enough talk! Slay the boy first before he dies on his own. I 
like my meat fresh.” 

No! Leo’s fingers flew, connecting the wires for the remote. Just a fewmore minutes! 

“Hey, wait,” Piper said, trying to get the Cyclopes’ attention. “Hey, can I just ask — ” 

The wires sparked in Leo’s hand. The Cyclopes froze and turned in his direction. Then Torque picked up a truck and threw it at him. 

Leo rolled as the truck steamrolled over the machinery. If he’d been a half-second slower, he would’ve been smashed. 

He got to his feet, and Ma Gasket spotted him. She yelled, “Torque, you pathetic excuse for a Cyclops, get him!” 

Torque barreled toward him. Leo frantically gunned the toggle on his makeshift remote. 

Torque was fifty feet away. Twenty feet. 




Then the first robotic arm whirred to life. A three-ton yellow metal claw slammed the Cyclops in the back so hard, he landed flat on his face. Before 
Torque could recover, the robotic hand grabbed him by one leg and hurled him straight up. 

“AHHHHH!” Torque rocketed into the gloom. The ceiling was too dark and too high up to see exactly what happened, but judging from the harsh metal 
clang, Leo guessed the Cyclops had hit one of the support girders. 

Torque never came down. Instead, yellow dust rained to the floor. Torque had disintegrated. 

Ma Gasket stared at Leo in shock. “My son . . . Ydu . . . You . . .” 

As if on cue, Sump lumbered into the firelight with a case of salsa. “Ma, I got the extra-spicy — ” 

He never finished his sentence. Leo spun the remote’s toggle, and the second robotic arm whacked Sump in the chest. The salsa case exploded like 
a pinata and Sump flew backward, right into the base of Leo’s third machine. Sump may have been immune to getting hit with truck chasses, but he 
wasn’t immune to robotic arms that could deliver ten thousand pounds of force. The third crane arm slammed him against the floor so hard, he exploded 
into dust like a broken flour sack. 

Two Cyclopes down. Leo was beginning to feel like Commander Tool Belt when Ma Gasket locked her eye on him. She grabbed the nearest crane 
arm and ripped it off its pedestal with a savage roar. “\fou busted my boys! Only / get to bust my boys!” 

Leo punched a button, and the two remaining arms swung into action. Ma Gasket caught the first one and tore it in half. The second arm smacked 
her in the head, but that only seemed to make her mad. She grabbed it by the clamps, ripped it free, and swung it like a baseball bat. It missed Piper and 
Jason by an inch. Then Ma Gasket let it go — spinning it toward Leo. He yelped and rolled to one side as it demolished the machine next to him. 

Leo started to realize that an angry Cyclops mother was not something you wanted to fight with a universal remote and a screwdriver. The future for 
Commander Tool Belt was not looking so hot. 

She stood about twenty feet from him now, next to the cooking fire. Her fists were clenched, her teeth bared. She looked ridiculous in her chain mail 
muumuu and her greasy pigtails — but given the murderous glare in her huge red eye and the fact that she was twelve feet tall, Leo wasn’t laughing. 
“Anymore tricks, demigod?” Ma Gasket demanded. 

Leo glanced up. The engine block suspended on the chain — if only he’d had time to rig it. If only he could get Ma Gasket to take one step forward. 
The chain itself ... that one link ... Leo shouldn’t have been able to see it, especially from so far down, but his senses told him there was metal fatigue. 
“Heck, yeah, I got tricks!” Leo raised his remote control. “Take one more step, and I'll destroy you with fire!” 

Ma Gasket laughed. “Would you? Cyclopes are immune to fire, you idiot. But if you wish to play with flames, let me help!” 

She scooped red-hot coals into her bare hands and flung them at Leo. They landed all around his feet. 

“Nt>u missed,” he said incredulously. Then Ma Gasket grinned and picked up a barrel next to the truck. Leo just had time to read the stenciled word on 
the side — kerosene — before Ma Gasket threw it. The barrel split on the floor in front of him, spilling lighter fluid everywhere. 

Coals sparked. Leo closed his eyes, and Piper screamed, “No!” 

Afirestorm erupted around him. When Leo opened his eyes he was bathed in flames swirling twenty feet into the air. 

Ma Gasket shrieked with delight, but Leo didn’t offer the fire any good fuel. The kerosene burned off, dying down to small fiery patches on the floor. 
Piper gasped. “Leo?” 

Ma Gasket looked astonished. “\bu live?” Then she took that extra step forward, which put her right where Leo wanted. “What are you?” 

“The son of Hephaestus,” Leo said. “And I warned you I’d destroy you with fire.” 

He pointed one finger in the air and summoned all his will. He’d never tried to do anything so focused and intense — but he shot a bolt of white-hot 
flames at the chain suspending the engine block above the Cyclops’s head — aiming for the link that looked weaker than rest. 

The flames died. Nothing happened. Ma Gasket laughed. “An impressive try, son of Hephaestus. It’s been many centuries since I saw a fire user. 
You’ll make a spicy appetizer!” 

The chain snapped — that single link heated beyond its tolerance point — and the engine block fell, deadly and silent. 

“I don’t think so,” Leo said. 

Ma Gasket didn't even have time to look up. 

Smash! No more Cyclops — just a pile of dust under a five-ton engine block. 

“Not immune to engines, huh?” Leo said. “Boo-yah!” 

Then he fell to his knees, his head buzzing. After a few minutes he realized Piper was calling his name. 

“Leo! Are you all right? Can you move?” 

He stumbled to his feet. He’d never tried to summon such an intense fire before, and it had left him completely drained. 

It took him a long time to get Piper down from her chains. Then together they lowered Jason, who was still unconscious. Piper managed to trickle a 
little nectar into his mouth, and he groaned. The welt on his head started to shrink. His color came back a little. 

“Nfeah, he’s got a nice thick skull," Leo said. “I think he’s gonna be fine.” 

“Thank god,” Piper sighed. Then she looked at Leo with something like fear. “How did you — the fire — have you always ... ?” 

Leo looked down. “Always,” he said. “I’m a freaking menace. Sorry, I should’ve told you guys sooner but — ” 

“Sorry?” Piper punched his arm. When he looked up, she was grinning. “That was amazing, Valdez! You saved our lives. What are you sorry about?” 
Leo blinked. He started to smile, but his sense of relief was ruined when he noticed something next to Piper’s foot. 

Nfellow dust — the powdered remains of one of the Cyclopes, maybe Torque — was shifting across the floor like an invisible wind was pushing it back 
together. 

“They’re forming again,” Leo said. “Look.” 

Piper stepped away from the dust. “That’s not possible. Annabeth told me monsters dissipate when they’re killed. They go back to Tartarus and can’t 
return for a long time.” 

“Well, nobody told the dust that.” Leo watched as it collected into a pile, then very slowly spread out, forming a shape with arms and legs. 

“Oh, god.” Piper turned pale. “Boreas said something about this — the earth yielding up horrors. ‘When monsters no longer stay in Tartarus, and souls 
are no longer confined to Hades.’ How long do you think we have?” 

Leo thought about the face that had formed in the ground outside — the sleeping woman who was definitely a horror from the earth. 

“I don’t know,” he said. “But we need to get out of here.” 




XXV 



JASON 

Jason DREAMED HE WAS WRAPPED in chains, hanging upside down like a hunk of meat. Everything hurt — his arms, his legs, his chest, his head. Especially his 
head. It felt like an overinflated water balloon. 

“If I’m dead,” he murmured, “why does it hurt so much?” 

“>bu’re not dead, my hero,” said a woman’s voice. “It is not your time. Come, speak with me.” 

Jason’s thoughts floated away from his body. He heard monsters yelling, his friends screaming, fiery explosions, but it all seemed to be happening on 
another plane of existence — getting farther and farther away. 

He found himself standing in an earthen cage. Tendrils of tree roots and stone whirled together, confining him. Outside the bars, he could see the floor 
of a dry reflecting pool, another earthen spire growing at the far end, and above them, the ruined red stones of a burned-out house. 

Next to him in the cage, a woman sat cross-legged in black robes, her head covered by a shroud. She pushed aside her veil, revealing a face that 
was proud and beautiful — but also hardened with suffering. 

“Hera,” Jason said. 

“Welcome to my prison,” said the goddess. “You will not die today, Jason. "Ybur friends will see you through — for now.” 

“For now?” he asked. 

Hera gestured at the tendrils of her cage. “There are worse trials to come. The very earth stirs against us.” 

“>bu’re a goddess,” Jason said. “Why can’t you just escape?” 

Hera smiled sadly. Her form began to glow, until her brilliance filled the cage with painful light. The air hummed with power, molecules splitting apart 
like a nuclear explosion. Jason suspected if he were actually there in the flesh, he would’ve been vaporized. 

The cage should’ve been blasted to rubble. The ground should’ve split and the ruined house should’ve been leveled. But when the glow died, the 
cage hadn’t budged. Nothing outside the bars had changed. Only Hera looked different — a little more stooped and tired. 

“Some powers are even greater than the gods,” she said, “lam not easily contained. I can be in many places at once. But when the greater part of my 
essence is caught, it is like a foot in a bear trap, you might say. I can’t escape, and I am concealed from the eyes of the other gods. Only you can find me, 
and I grow weaker by the day.” 

“Then why did you come here?” Jason asked. “How were you caught?” 

The goddess sighed. “I could not stay idle. Your father Jupiter believes he can withdraw from the world, and thus lull our enemies back to sleep. He 
believes we Olympians have become too involved in the affairs of mortals, in the fates of our demigod children, especially since we agreed to claim them 
all after the war. He believes this is what has caused our enemies to stir. That is why he closed Olympus.” 

“But you don’t agree.” 

“No,” she said. “Often I do not understand my husband’s moods or his decisions, but even for Zeus, this seemed paranoid. I cannot fathom why he 
was so insistent and so convinced. It was ... unlike him. As Hera, I might have been content to follow my lord’s wishes. But I am also Juno.” Her image 
flickered, and Jason saw armor under her simple black robes, a goatskin cloak — the symbol of a Roman warrior — across her bronze mantle. “Juno 
Moneta they once called me — Juno, the One Who Warns. I was guardian of the state, patron of Eternal Rome. I could not sit by while the descendants of 
my people were attacked. I sensed danger at this sacred spot. A voice — ” She hesitated. “A voice told me I should come here. Gods do not have what 
you might call a conscience, nor do we have dreams; but the voice was like that — soft and persistent, warning me to come here. And so the same day 
Zeus closed Olympus, I slipped away without telling him my plans, so he could not stop me. And I came here to investigate.” 

“It was a trap,” Jason guessed. 

The goddess nodded. “Only too late did I realize how quickly the earth was stirring. I was even more foolish than Jupiter — a slave to my own 
impulses. This is exactly how it happened the first time. I was taken captive by the giants, and my imprisonment started a war. Now our enemies rise 
again. The gods can only defeat them with the help of the greatest living heroes. And the one whom the giants serve . . .she cannot be defeated at all 
— only kept asleep.” 

“I don’t understand.” 

“Nbu will soon,” Hera said. 

The cage began to constrict, the tendrils spiraling tighter. Hera’s form shivered like a candle flame in the breeze. Outside the cage, Jason could see 
shapes gathering at the edge of the pool — lumbering humanoids with hunched backs and bald heads. Unless Jason’s eyes were tricking him — they had 
more than one set of arms. He heard wolves too, but not the wolves he’d seen with Lupa. He could tell from their howls this was a different pack — hungrier, 
more aggressive, out for blood. 

“Hurry, Jason,” Hera said. “My keepers approach, and you begin to wake. I will not be strong enough to appear to you again, even in dreams.” 

“Wait,” he said. “Boreas told us you’d made a dangerous gamble. What did he mean?” 

Hera’s eyes looked wild, and Jason wondered if she really had done something crazy. 

“An exchange,” she said. “The only way to bring peace. The enemy counts on our divisions, and if we are divided, we will be destroyed. You are my 
peace offering, Jason — a bridge to overcome millennia of hatred.” 

“What? I don’t — ” 

“I cannot tell you more,” Hera said. “Nt>u have only lived this long because I have taken your memory. Find this place. 

Return to your starting point. \bur sister will help.” 

“Thalia?” 

The scene began to dissolve. “Good-bye, Jason. Beware Chicago. \bur most dangerous mortal enemy waits there. If you are to die, it will be by her 
hand.” 

“Who?” he demanded. 

But Hera’s image faded, and Jason awoke. 

His eyes snapped open. “Cyclops!" 

“Whoa, sleepyhead." Piper sat behind him on the bronze dragon, holding his waist to keep him balanced. Leo sat in front, driving. They flew 



peacefully through the winter sky as if nothing had happened. 

“D-Detroit,” Jason stammered. “Didn’t we crash-land? I thought — ’’ 

“It’s okay,” Leo said. “We got away, but you got a nasty concussion. How you feeling?” 

Jason’s head throbbed. He remembered the factory, then walking down the catwalk, then a creature looming over him — a face with one eye, a 
massive fist — and everything went black. 

“How did you — the Cyclops — ” 

“Leo ripped them apart,” Piper said. “He was amazing. He can summon fire — ” 

“It was nothing,” Leo said quickly. 

Piper laughed. “Shut up, Valdez. I’m going to tell him. Get over it.” 

And she did — how Leo single-handedly defeated the Cyclopes family; how they freed Jason, then noticed the Cyclopes starting to re-form; how Leo 
had replaced the dragon’s wiring and gotten them back in the air just as they’d started to hear the Cyclopes roaring for vengeance inside the factory. 

Jason was impressed. Taking out three Cyclopes with nothing but a tool kit? Not bad. It didn't exactly scare him to hear how close he’d come to 
death, but it did make him feel horrible. He’d stepped right into an ambush and spent the whole fight knocked out while his friends fended for themselves. 
What kind of quest leader was he? 

When Piper told him about the other kid the Cyclopes claimed to have eaten, the one in the purple shirt who spoke Latin, Jason felt like his head was 
going to explode. A son of Mercury ... Jason felt like he should know that kid, but the name was missing from his mind. 

“I’m not alone, then,” he said. “There are others like me.” 

“Jason,” Piper said, “you were never alone. "Vbu’ve got us.” 

“I — I know ... but something Hera said. I was having a dream...” 

He told them what he’d seen, and what the goddess had said inside her cage. 

“An exchange?” Piper asked. “What does that mean?” 

Jason shook his head. “But Hera’s gamble is me. Just by sending me to Camp Half-Blood, I have a feeling she broke some kind of rule, something 
that could blow up in a big way — ” 

“Or save us,” Piper said hopefully. “That bit about the sleeping enemy — that sounds like the lady Leo told us about.” 

Leo cleared his throat. “About that ... she kind of appeared to me back in Detroit, in a pool of Porta-Potty sludge.” 

Jason wasn’t sure he’d heard that right. “Did you say . . . Porta-Potty?” 

Leo told them about the big face in the factory yard. “I don’t know if she’s completely unkillable,” he said, “but she cannot be defeated by toilet seats. I 
can vouch for that. She wanted me to betray you guys, and Iwas like, ‘ Pfft, right, I’m gonna listen to a face in the potty sludge.’” 

“She’s trying to divide us.” Piper slipped her arms from around Jason’s waist. He could sense her tension without even looking at her. 

“What’s wrong?” he asked. 

“I just ... Why are they toying with us? Who is this lady, and how is she connected to Enceladus?” 

“Enceladus?” Jason didn’t think he’d heard that name before. 

“I mean ...” Piper’s voice quavered. “That’s one of the giants. Just one of the names I could remember." 

Jason got the feeling there was a lot more bothering her, but he decided he not to press her. She’d had a rough morning. 

Leo scratched his head. “Well, I dunno about Enchiladas — ” 

“Enceladus,” Piper corrected. 

“Whatever. But Old Potty Face mentioned another name. Porpoise Fear, or something?” 

“Porphyrion?” Piper asked. “He was the giant king, I think.” 

Jason envisioned that dark spire in the old reflecting pool — growing larger as Hera got weaker. “I’m going to take wild guess,” he said. “In the old 
stories, Porphyrion kidnapped Hera. That was the first shot in the war between the giants and the gods.” 

“I think so,” Piper agreed. “But those myths are really garbled and conflicted. It’s almost like nobody wanted that story to survive. I just remember there 
was a war, and the giants were almost impossible to kill.” 

“Heroes and gods had to work together,” Jason said. “That’s what Hera told me.” 

“Kind of hard to do,” Leo grumbled, “if the gods won’t even talk to us.” 

They flew west, and Jason became lost in his thoughts — all of them bad. He wasn’t sure how much time passed before the dragon dove through a 
break in the clouds, and below them, glittering in the winter sun, was a city at the edge of a massive lake. A crescent of skyscrapers lined the shore. 
Behind them, stretching out to the western horizon, was a vast grid of snow-covered neighborhoods and roads. 

“Chicago,” Jason said. 

He thought about what Hera had said in his dream. His worst mortal enemy would be waiting here. If he was going to die, it would be by her hand. 
“One problem down,” Leo said. “We got here alive. Now, how do we find the storm spirits?” 

Jason saw a flash of movement below them. At first he thought it was a small plane, but it was too small, too dark and fast. The thing spiraled toward 
the skyscrapers, weaving and changing shape — and, just for a moment it became the smoky figure of a horse. 

“How about we follow that one,” Jason suggested, “and see where it goes?" 




XXVI 



JASON 

Jason was afraid theyd lose their target The ventus moved like . . . well, like the wind. 

“Speed up!” he urged. 

“Bro,” Leo said, “if I get any closer, he’ll spot us. Bronze dragon ain’t exactly a stealth plane." 

“Slowdown!” Piper yelped. 

The storm spirit dove into the grid of downtown streets. Festus tried to follow, but his wingspan was way too wide. His left wing clipped the edge of a 
building, slicing off a stone gargoyle before Leo pulled up. 

“Get above the buildings,” Jason suggested. “We’ll track him from there.” 

“Nt>u want to drive this thing?” Leo grumbled, but he did what Jason asked. 

After a few minutes, Jason spotted the storm spirit again, zipping through the streets with no apparent purpose — blowing over pedestrians, ruffling 
flags, making cars swerve. 

“Oh great,” Piper said. “There’re two.” 

She was right. A second ventus blasted around the corner of the Renaissance Hotel and linked up with the first. They wove together in a chaotic 
dance, shooting to the top of a skyscraper, bending a radio tower, and diving back down toward the street. 

“Those guys do not need any more caffeine,” Leo said. 

“I guess Chicago’s a good place to hang out,” Piper said. “Nobody’s going to question a couple more evil winds.” 

“More than a couple,” Jason said. “Look.” 

The dragon circled over a wide avenue next to a lake-side park. Storm spirits were converging — at least a dozen of them, whirling around a big 
public art installation. 

“Which one do you think is Dylan?” Leo asked. “I wanna throw something at him.” 

But Jason focused on the art installation. The closer they got to it, the faster his heart beat. It was just a public fountain, but it was unpleasantly 
familiar. Two five-story monoliths rose from either end of a long granite reflecting pool. The monoliths seemed to be built of video screens, flashing the 
combined image of a giant face that spewed water into the pool. 

Maybe it was just a coincidence, but it looked like a high-tech, super-size version of that ruined reflecting pool he’d seen in his dreams, with those 
two dark masses jutting from either end. As Jason watched, the image on the screens changed to a woman’s face with her eyes closed. 

“Leo ...” he said nervously. 

“I see her,” Leo said. “I don't like her, but I see her.” 

Then the screens went dark. The venti swirled together into a single funnel cloud and skittered across the fountain, kicking up a waterspout almost as 
high as the monoliths. They got to its center, popped off a drain cover, and disappeared underground. 

“Did they just go down a drain?” Piper asked. “How are we supposed to follow them?” 

“Maybe we shouldn’t,” Leo said. “That fountain thing is giving me seriously bad vibes. And aren’t we supposed to, like, beware the earth?” 

Jason felt the same way, but they had to follow. It was their only way forward. They had to find Hera, and they now had only two days until the solstice. 

“Put us down in that park,” he suggested. “We’ll check it out on foot.” 

Festus landed in an open area between the lake and the skyline. The signs said Grant Park, and Jason imagined it would’ve been a nice place in the 
summer; but now it was a field of ice, snow, and salted walkways. The dragon’s hot metal feet hissed as they touched down. Festus flapped his wings 
unhappily and shot fire into the sky, but there was no one around to notice. The wind coming off the lake was bitter cold. Anyone with sense would be 
inside. Jason’s eyes stung so badly, he could barely see. 

They dismounted, and Festus the dragon stomped his feet. One of his ruby eyes flickered, so it looked like he was blinking. 

“Is that normal?” Jason asked. 

Leo pulled a rubber mallet from his tool bag. He whacked the dragon’s bad eye, and the light went back to normal. “Yes,” Leo said. “Festus can’t 
hang around here, though, in the middle of the park. They’ll arrest him for loitering. Maybe if I had a dog whistle ...” 

He rummaged in his tool belt, but came up with nothing. 

“Too specialized?” he guessed. “Okay, give me a safety whistle. They got that in lots of machine shops.” 

This time, Leo pulled out a big plastic orange whistle. “Coach Hedge would be jealous! Okay, Festus, listen.” Leo blew the whistle. The shrill sound 
probably rolled all the way across Lake Michigan. “\bu hear that, come find me, okay? Until then, you fly wherever you want. Just try not to barbecue any 
pedestrians.” 

The dragon snorted — hopefully in agreement. Then he spread his wings and launched into the air. 

Piper took one step and winced. “Ah!” 

“Nt>ur ankle?” Jason felt bad he’d forgotten about her injury back in the Cyclops factory. “That nectar we gave you might be wearing off." 

“It’s fine.” She shivered, and Jason remembered his promise to get her a new snowboarding coat. He hoped he lived long enough to find her one. 
She took a few more steps with only a slight limp, but Jason could tell she was trying not to grimace. 

“Let’s get out of the wind,” he suggested. 

“Down a drain?” Piper shuddered. “Sounds cozy.” 

They wrapped themselves up as best they could and headed toward the fountain. 

* ★ ★ 

According to the plaque, it was called Crown Fountain. All the water had emptied out except for a few patches that were starting to freeze. It didn’t seem 
right to Jason that the fountain would have water in it in the winter anyway. Then again, those big monitors had flashed the face of their mysterious enemy 
Dirt Woman. Nothing about this place was right. 

They stepped to the center of the pool. No spirits tried to stop them. The giant monitor walls stayed dark. The drain hole was easily big enough for a 
person, and a maintenance ladder led down into the gloom. 

Jason went first. As he climbed, he braced himself for horrible sewer smells, but it wasn’t that bad. The ladder dropped into a brickwork tunnel 



running north to south. The air was warm and dry, with only a trickle of water on the floor. 

Piper and Leo climbed down after him. 

“Are all sewers this nice?” Piper wondered. 

“No,” Leo said. “Trust me.” 

Jason frowned. “How do you know — ” 

“Hey, man, I ran away six times. I’ve slept in some weird places, okay? Now, which way do we go?” 

Jason tilted his head, listening, then pointed south. “That way.” 

“How can you be sure?” Piper asked. 

“There’s a draft blowing south,” Jason said. “Maybe the venti went with the flow.” 

It wasn’t much of a lead, but nobody offered anything better. 

Unfortunately, as soon as they started walking, Piper stumbled. Jason had to catch her. 

“Stupid ankle,” she cursed. 

“Let’s rest,” Jason decided. “We could all use it. We’ve been going nonstop for over a day. Leo, can you pull any food from that tool belt besides 
breath mints?” 

“Thought you’d never ask. Chef Leo is on it!” 

Piper and Jason sat on a brick ledge while Leo shuffled through his pack. 

Jason was glad to rest. He was still tired and dizzy, and hungry, too. But mostly, he wasn’t eager to face whatever lay ahead. He turned his gold coin 
in his fingers. 

If you are to die, Hera had warned, it will be by her hand. 

Whoever “her” was. After Khione, the Cyclops mother, and the weird sleeping lady, the last thing Jason needed was another psycho villainess in his 
life. 

“It wasn’t your fault,” Piper said. 

He looked at her blankly. “What?” 

“Getting jumped by the Cyclopes,” she said. “It wasn't your fault.” 

He looked down at the coin in his palm. “I was stupid. I left you alone and walked into a trap. I should’ve known...” 

He didn’t finish. There were too many things he should have known — who he was, how to fight monsters, how Cyclopes lured their victims by 
mimicking voices and hiding in shadows and a hundred other tricks. All that information was supposed to be in his head. He could feel the places it 
should be — like empty pockets. If Hera wanted him to succeed, why had she stolen the memories that could help him? She claimed his amnesia had kept 
him alive, but that made no sense. He was starting to understand whyAnnabeth had wanted to leave the goddess in her cage. 

“Hey.” Piper nudged his arm. “Cut yourself some slack. Just because you’re the son of Zeus doesn't mean you’re a one-man army." 

A few feet away, Leo lit a small cooking fire. He hummed as he pulled supplies out of his pack and his tool belt. 

In the firelight, Piper’s eyes seemed to dance. Jason had been studying them for days now, and he still couldn’t decide what color they were. 

“I know this must suck for you,” he said. “Not just the quest, I mean. The way I appeared on the bus, the Mist messing with your mind, and making you 
think I was . . .you know." 

She dropped her gaze, “\feah, well. None of us asked for this. It’s not your fault.” 

She tugged at the little braids on each side of her head. Again, Jason thought how glad he was that she’d lost the Aphrodite blessing. With the 
makeup and the dress and the perfect hair, she’d looked about twenty-five, glamorous, and completely out of his league. He’d never thought of beauty as 
a form of power, but that’s the way Piper had seemed — powerful. 

He liked regular Piper better — someone he could hang out with. But the weird thing was, he couldn’t quite get that other image out of his head. It 
hadn’t been an illusion. That side of Piper was there too. She just did her best to hide it. 

“Back in the factory,” Jason said, “you were you going to say something about your dad.” 

She traced her finger over the bricks, almost like she was writing out a scream she didn't want to vocalize. “Was I?" 

“Piper,” he said, “he’s in some kind of trouble, isn't it?” 

Over at the fire, Leo stirred some sizzling bell peppers and meat in a pan. “Yeah, baby! Almost there.” 

Piper looked on the verge of tears. “Jason ... I can’t talk about it.” 

“We’re your friends. Let us help.” 

That seemed to make her feel worse. She took a shaky breath. “I wish I could, but — ” 

“And bingo!” Leo announced. 

He came over with three plates stacked on his arms like a waiter. Jason had no idea where he’d gotten all the food, or how he’d put it together so 
fast, but it looked amazing: pepper and beef tacos with chips and salsa. 

“Leo,” Piper said in amazement. “How did you — ?” 

“Chef Leo’s Taco Garage is fixing you up!” he said proudly. “And by the way, it’s tofu, not beef, beauty queen, so don’tfreak. Just dig in!” 

Jason wasn't sure about tofu, but the tacos tasted as good as they smelled. While they ate, Leo tried to lighten the mood and joke around. Jason was 
grateful Leo was with them. It made being with Piper a little less intense and uncomfortable. At the same time, he kind of wished he was alone with her; but 
he chided himself for feeling that way. 

After Piper ate, Jason encouraged her to get some sleep. Without another word, she curled up and put her head in his lap. In two seconds she was 
snoring. 

Jason looked up at Leo, who was obviously trying not to laugh. 

They sat in silence for a few minutes, drinking lemonade Leo had made from canteen water and powdered mix. 

“Good, huh?” Leo grinned. 

“Nt>u should start a stand,” Jason said. “Make some serious coin.” 

But as he stared at the embers of the fire, something began to bother him. “Leo ... about this fire stuff you can do ... is it true?” 

Leo’s smile faltered. “Yeah, well ..." He opened his hand. Asmall ball offlame burst to life, dancing across his palm. 

“That is so cool,” Jason said. “Why didn’t you say anything?” 

Leo closed his hand and the fire went out. “Didn’t want to look like a freak.” 

“I have lightning and wind powers," Jason reminded him. “Piper can turn beautiful and charm people into giving her BMWs. \t>u’re no more a freak 
than we are. And, hey, maybe you can fly, too. Like jump off a building and yell, ‘Flame on!”’ 

Leo snorted. “If I did that, you would see a flaming kid falling to his death, and I would be yelling something a little stronger than ‘Flame on!’ Trust me, 
Hephaestus cabin doesn’t see fire powers as cool. Nyssa told me they’re super rare. When a demigod like me comes around, bad things happen. Really 
bad.” 




“Maybe it’s the other way around,” Jason suggested. “Maybe people with special gifts show up when bad things are happening because that’s when 
they’re needed most.” 

Leo cleared away the plates. “Maybe. But I’m telling you ... it’s not always a gift.” 

Jason fell silent. “\t>u’re talking about your mom, aren’t you? The night she died.” 

Leo didn’t answer. He didn’t have to. The fact that he was quiet, not joking around — that told Jason enough. 

“Leo, her death wasn't your fault. Whatever happened that night — it wasn’t because you could summon fire. This Dirt Woman, whoever she is, has 
been trying to ruin you for years, mess up your confidence, take away everything you care about. She’s trying to make you feel like a failure. \bu’re not. 
"vbu’re important.” 

“That’s what she said.” Leo looked up, his eyes full of pain. “She said I was meant to do something important — something that would make or break 
that big prophecy about the seven demigods. That’s what scares me. I don’t know if I’m up to it.” 

Jason wanted to tell him everything would be all right, but it would’ve sounded fake. Jason didn't know wJiat would happen. They were demigods, 
which meant sometimes things didn’t end okay. Sometimes you got eaten by the Cyclops. 

If you asked most kids, “Hey, you want to summon fire or lightning or magical makeup?” they’d think it sounded pretty cool. But those powers went 
along with hard stuff, like sitting in a sewer in the middle of winter, running from monsters, losing your memory, watching your friends almost get cooked, 
and having dreams that warned you of your own death. 

Leo poked at the remnants of his fire, turning over red-hot coals with his bare hand. “You ever wonder about the other four demigods? I mean ... if 
we’re three of the ones from the Great Prophecy, who are the others? Where are they?” 

Jason had thought about it, all right, but he tried to push it out of his mind. He had a horrible suspicion that he would be expected to lead those other 
demigods, and he was afraid he would fail. 

Youll tear each other apart, Boreas had promised. 

Jason had been trained never to show fear. He was sure of that from his dream with the wolves. He was supposed to act confident, even if he didn’t 
feel it. But Leo and Piper were depending on him, and he was terrified of failing them. If he had to lead a group of six — six who might not get along — that 
would be even worse. 

“I don’t know,” he said at last. “I guess the other four will show up when the time is right. Who knows? Maybe they’re on some other quest right now.” 
Leo grunted. “I bet their sewer is nicer than ours.” 

The draft picked up, blowing toward the south end of the tunnel. 

“Get some rest, Leo,” Jason said. “I’ll take first watch.” 

It was hard to measure time, but Jason figured his friends slept about four hours. Jason didn’t mind. Now that he was resting, he didn’t really feel the need 
for more sleep. He’d been conked out long enough on the dragon. Plus, he needed time to think about the quest, his sister Thalia, and Hera’s warnings. 
He also didn’t mind Piper’s using him for a pillow. She had a cute way of breathing when she slept — inhaling through the nose, exhaling with a little puff 
through the mouth. He was almost disappointed when she woke up. 

Finally they broke camp and started down the tunnel. 

It twisted and turned and seemed to go on forever. Jason wasn’t sure what to expect at the end — a dungeon, a mad scientist’s lab, or maybe a sewer 
reservoir where all Porta-Potty sludge ends up, forming an evil toilet face large enough to swallow the world. 

Instead, they found polished steel elevator doors, each one engraved with a cursive letter M. Next to the elevator was a directory, like for a 
department store. 

“M for Macy’s?” Piper guessed. “I think they have one in downtown Chicago.” 

“Or Monocle Motors still?” Leo said. “Guys, read the directory. It’s messed up.” 

Parking, Kennels, Main Entrance: Sewer Level 
Furnishings and Cafe M: 1 
Women’s Fashion and Magical Appliances: 2 
Men’s Wear and Weaponry: 3 
Cosmetics, Potions, Poisons & Sundries: 4 

“Kennels for what?” Piper said. “And what kind of department store has its entrance in a sewer?” 

“Or sells poisons,” Leo said. “Man, what does ‘sundries’ even mean? Is that like underwear?” 

Jason took a deep breath. “When in doubt, start at the top.” 

* * * 

The doors slid open on the fourth floor, and the scent of perfume wafted into the elevator. Jason stepped out first, sword ready. 

“Guys,” he said. “You’ve got to see this.” 

Piper joined him and caught her breath. “This is not Macy’s.” 

The department store looked like the inside of a kaleidoscope. The entire ceiling was a stained glass mosaic with astrological signs around a giant 
sun. The daylight streaming through it washed everything in a thousand different colors. The upper floors made a ring of balconies around a huge central 
atrium, so they could see all the way down to the ground floor. Gold railings glittered so brightly, they were hard to look at. 

Aside from the stained glass ceiling and the elevator, Jason couldn’t see any other windows or doors, but two sets of glass escalators ran between 
the levels. The carpeting was a riot of oriental patterns and colors, and the racks of merchandise were just as bizarre. There was too much to take it at 
once, but Jason saw normal stuff like shirt racks and shoe trees mixed in with armored manikins, beds of nails, and fur coats that seemed to be moving. 
Leo stepped to the railing and looked down. “Check it out.” 

In the middle of the atrium a fountain sprayed water twenty feet into the air, changing color from red to yellow to blue. The pool glittered with gold 
coins, and on either side of the fountain stood a gilded cage — like an oversize canary cage. 

Inside one, a miniature hurricane swirled, and lightning flashed. Somebody had imprisoned the storm spirits, and the cage shuddered as they tried to 
get out. In the other, frozen like a statue, was a short, buff satyr, holding a tree-branch club. 

“Coach Hedge!” Piper said. “We’ve got to get down there.” 

A voice said, “May I help you find something?” 

All three of them jumped back. 

A woman had just appeared in front of them. She wore an elegant black dress with diamond jewelry, and she looked like a retired fashion model 
— maybe fifty years old, though it was hard for Jason to judge. Her long dark hair swept over one shoulder, and her face was gorgeous in that surreal 
super-model way — thin and haughty and cold, not quite human. With their long red-painted nails, her fingers looked more like talons. 




She smiled. “I’m so happy to see new customers. How may I help you?” 

Leo glanced at Jason like, All yours. 

“Urn,” Jason started, “is this your store?” 

The woman nodded. “I found it abandoned, you know. I understand so many stores are, these days. I decided it would make the perfect place. I love 
collecting tasteful objects, helping people, and offering quality goods at a reasonable price. So this seemed a good ... how do you say ... first acquisition 
in this country.” 

She spoke with a pleasing accent, but Jason couldn’t guess where from. Clearly she wasn’t hostile, though. Jason started to relax. Her voice was rich 
and exotic. Jason wanted to hear more. 

“So you’re new to America?” he asked. 

“I am . . . new,” the woman agreed. “I am the Princess of Colchis. My friends call me Your Highness. Now, what are you looking for?” 

Jason had heard of rich foreigners buying American department stores. Of course most of the time they didn't sell poisons, living fur coats, storm 
spirits, or satyrs, but still — with a nice voice like that, the Princess of Colchis couldn’t be all bad. 

Piper poked him in the ribs. “Jason ..." 

“Urn, right. Actually, "four Highness ..." He pointed to the gilded cage on the first floor. “That’s our friend down there, Gleeson Hedge. The satyr. Could 
we ... have him back, please?” 

“Of course!” the princess agreed immediately. “I would love to show you my inventory. First, may I know your names?” 

Jason hesitated. It seemed like a bad idea to give out their names. A memory tugged at the back of his mind — something Hera had warned him 
about, but it seemed fuzzy. 

On the other hand, Her Highness was on the verge of cooperating. If they could get what they wanted without a fight, that would be better. Besides, 
this lady didn’t seem like an enemy. 

Piper started to say, “Jason, I wouldn’t — ” 

“This is Piper,” he said. “This is Leo. I'm Jason.” 

The princess fixed her eyes on him and, just for a moment, her face literally glowed, blazing with so much anger, Jason could see her skull beneath 
her skin. Jason’s mind was getting blurrier, but he knew something didn’t seem right. Then the moment passed, and Her Highness looked like a normal 
elegant woman again, with a cordial smile and a soothing voice. 

“Jason. What an interesting name,” she said, her eyes as cold as the Chicago wind. “I think we'll have to make a special deal for you. Come, 
children. Let’s go shopping.” 




XXV 



PIPER 



Piper wanted to run rdr the el evator. 

Her second choice: attack the weird princess now, because she was sure a fight was coming. The way the lady’s face glowed when she’d heard 
Jason’s name had been bad enough. Now Her Highness was smiling like nothing had happened, and Jason and Leo didn’t seem to think anything was 
wrong. 

The princess gestured toward the cosmetics counter. “Shall we start with the potions?” 

“Cool,” Jason said. 

“Guys,” Piper interrupted, “we’re here to get the storm spirits and Coach Hedge. If this — princess — is really our friend — ” 

“Oh, I’m better than a friend, my dear,” Her Highness said. “I’m a saleswoman.” Her diamonds sparkled, and her eyes glittered like a snake’s — cold 
and dark. “Don’t worry. We’ll work our way down to the first floor, eh?” 

Leo nodded eagerly. “Sure, yeah! That sounds okay. Right, Piper?” 

Piper did her best to stare daggers at him: No, it is not okay! 

“Of course it’s okay.” Her Highness put her hands on Leo’s and Jason’s shoulders and steered them toward the cosmetics. “Come along, boys." 
Piper didn’t have much choice except to follow. 

She hated department stores — mostly because she’d gotten caught stealing from several of them. Well, not exactly caught, and not exactly stealing. 
She’d talked salesmen into giving her computers, new boots, a gold ring, once even a lawn mower, though she had no idea why she wanted one. She 
never kept the stuff. She just did it to get her dad’s attention. Usually she talked her neighborhood UPS guy into taking the stuff back. But of course the 
salesmen she duped always came to their senses and called the police, who eventually tracked her down. 

Anyway, she wasn’t thrilled to be back in a department store — especially one run by a crazy princess who glowed in the dark. 

“And here,” the princess said, “is the finest assortment of magical mixtures anywhere.” 

The counter was crammed with bubbling beakers and smoking vials on tripods. Lining the display shelves were crystal flasks — some shaped like 
swans or honey bear dispensers. The liquids inside were every color, from glowing white to polka-dotted. And the smells — ugh! Some were pleasant, like 
fresh-baked cookies or roses, but they were mixed with the scents of burning tires, skunk spray, and gym lockers. 

The princess pointed to a bloodred vial — a simple test tube with a cork stopper. “This one will heal any disease.” 

“Even cancer?” Leo asked. “Leprosy? Hangnails?” 

“Any disease, sweet boy. And this vial” — she pointed to a swan-shaped container with blue liquid inside — “will kill you very painfully.” 

“Awesome,” Jason said. His voice sounded dazed and sleepy. 

“Jason,” Piper said. “We’ve got a job to do. Remember?” She tried to put power into her words, to snap him out of his trance with charmspeak, but 
her voice sounded shaky even to her. This princess woman scared her too much, made her confidence crumble, just the way she’d felt back in the 
Aphrodite cabin with Drew. 

“Job to do,” Jason muttered. “Sure. But shopping first, okay?” 

The princess beamed at him. “Then we have potions for resisting fire—" 

“Got that covered,” Leo said. 

“Indeed?” The princess studied Leo’s face more closely. “You don’t appear to be wearing my trademark sunscreen ...but no matter. We also have 
potions that cause blindness, insanity, sleep, or — ” 

“Wait.” Piper was still staring at the red vial. “Could that potion cure lost memory?” 

The princess narrowed her eyes. “Possibly. Yes. Quite possibly. Why, my dear? Have you forgotten something important?” 

Piper tried to keep her expression neutral, but if that vial could cure Jason’s memory ... 

Do I really want that? she wondered. 

If Jason found out who he was, he might not even be her friend. Hera had taken away his memories for a reason. She’d told him it was the only way 
he’d survive at Camp Half-Blood. What if Jason found out that he was their enemy, or something? He might come out of his amnesia and decide he hated 
Piper. He might have a girlfriend wherever he came from. 

It doesn’t matter, she decided, which kind of surprised her. 

Jason always looked so anguished when he tried to remember things. Piper hated seeing him that way. She wanted to help him because she cared 
about him, even if that meant losing him. And maybe it would make this trip through Her Craziness’s department store worthwhile. 

“How much?” Piper asked. 

The princess got a faraway look in her eyes. “Well, now ... The price is always tricky. I love helping people. Honestly, I do. And I always keep my 
bargains, but sometimes people try to cheat me.” Her gaze drifted to Jason. “Once, for instance, I met a handsome young man who wanted a treasure 
from my father’s kingdom. We made a bargain, and I promised to help him steal it.” 

“From your own dad?” Jason still looked half in a trance, but the idea seemed to bother him. 

“Oh, don’t worry,” the princess said. “I demanded a high price. The young man had to take me away with him. He was quite good-looking, dashing, 
strong ...” She looked at Piper. “I’m sure, my dear, you understand how one might be attracted to such a hero, and want to help him.” 

Piper tried to control her emotions, but she probably blushed. She got the creepiest feeling the princess could read her thoughts. 

She also found the princess’s story disturbingly familiar. Pieces of old myths she’d read with her dad started coming together, but this woman 
couldn’t be the one she was thinking of. 

“At any rate,” Her Highness continued, “my hero had to do many impossible tasks, and I’m not bragging when I say he couldn’t have done them 
without me. I betrayed my own family to win the hero his prize. And still he cheated me of my payment.” 

“Cheated?” Jason frowned, as if trying to remember something important. 

“That’s messed up,” Leo said. 

Her Highness patted his cheek affectionately. “I’m sure you don’t need to worry, Leo. \bu seem honest. You would always pay a fair price, wouldn’t 
you?” 

Leo nodded. “What were we buying again? I’ll take two.” 

Piper broke in: “So, the vial, Your Highness — how much?” 



The princess assessed Piper’s clothes, her face, her posture, as if putting a price tag on one slightly used demigod. 

“Would you give anything for it, my dear?” the princess asked. “I sense that you would.” 

The words washed over Piper as powerfully as a good surfing wave. The force of the suggestion nearly lifted her offher feet. She wanted to pay any 
price. She wanted to say yes. 

Then her stomach twisted. Piper realized she was being charmspoken. She’d sensed something like it before, when Drew spoke at the campfire, 
but this was a thousand times more potent. No wonder her friends were dazed. Was this was what people felt when Piper used charmspeak? A feeling of 
guilt settled over her. 

She summoned all her willpower. “No, I won’t pay any price. But a fair price, maybe. After that, we need to leave. Right, guys?” 

Just for a moment, her words seemed to have some effect. The boys looked confused. 

“Leave?” Jason said. 

“Nt>u mean . . . after shopping?” Leo asked. 

Piper wanted to scream, but the princess tilted her head, examining Piper with newfound respect. 

“Impressive,” the princess said. “Not many people could resist my suggestions. Are you a child of Aphrodite, my dear? Ah, yes — I should have seen it. 
No matter. Perhaps we should shop a while longer before you decide what to buy, eh?” 

“But the vial — ” 

“Now, boys.” She turned to Jason and Leo. Her voice was so much more powerful than Piper’s, so full of confidence, Piper didn’t stand a chance. 
“Would you like to see more?” 

“Sure,” Jason said. 

“Okay,” Leo said. 

“Excellent,” the princess said. “Mou’ll need all the help you can get if you’re to make it to the Bay Area.” 

Piper’s hand moved to her dagger. She thought about her dream of the mountaintop — the scene Enceladus had shown her, a place she knew, where 
she was supposed to betray her friends in two days. 

“The Bay Area?” Piper said. “Why the Bay Area?” 

The princess smiled. “Well, that’s where they’ll die, isn’t it?” 

Then she led them toward the escalators, Jason and Leo still looking excited to shop. 




XXV 



PIPER 

Piper cornered the princess as Jason and Leo went off to check out the living fur coats. 

“Nt>u want them shopping for their deaths?” Piper demanded. 

“Mmm.” The princess blew dust off a display case of swords. “I’m a seer, my dear. I know your little secret. But we don’t want to dwell on that, do we? 
The boys are having such fun.” 

Leo laughed as he tried on a hat that seemed to be made from enchanted raccoon fur. Its ringed tail twitched, and its little legs wiggled frantically as 
Leo walked. Jason was ogling the men’s sportswear. Boys interested in shopping for clothes? A definite sign they were under an evil spell. 

Piper glared at the princess. “Who are you?” 

“I told you, my dear. I’m the Princess of Colchis.” 

“Where’s Colchis?” 

The princess’s expression turned a little sad. “Where was Colchis, you mean. My father ruled the far shores of the Black Sea, as far to the east as a 
Greek ship could sail in those days. But Colchis is no more — lost eons ago.” 

“Eons?” Piper asked. The princess looked no more than fifty, but a bad feeling started settling over Piper — something King Boreas had mentioned 
back in Quebec. “How old are you?” 

The princess laughed. “A lady should avoid asking or answering that question. Let’s just say the, ah, immigration process to enter your country took 
quite a while. My patron finally brought me through. She made all this possible.” The princess swept her hand around the department store. 

Piper’s mouth tasted like metal. “Your patron ...” 

“Oh, yes. She doesn’t bring just anyone through, mind you — only those who have special talents, such as me. And really, she insists on so little — a 
store entrance that must be underground so she can, ah, monitor my clientele; and a favor now and then. In exchange for a new life? Really, it was the best 
bargain I’d made in centuries.” 

Run, Piper thought. We have to get out of here. 

But before she could even turn her thoughts into words, Jason called, “Hey, check it out!” 

From a rack labeled distressed clothing, he held up a purple T-shirt like the one he’d worn on the school field trip — except this shirt looked as if it had 
been clawed by tigers. 

Jason frowned. “Why does this look so familiar?” 

“Jason, it’s like yours" Piper said. “Now we really have to leave.” But she wasn't sure he could even hear her anymore through the princess’s 
enchantment. 

“Nonsense,” the princess said. “The boys aren’t done, are they? And yes, my dear. Those shirts are very popular — tradeins from previous customers. 
It suits you.” 

Leo picked up an orange Camp Half-Blood tee with a hole through the middle, as if it had been hit by a javelin. Next to that was a dented bronze 
breastplate pitted with corrosion — acid, maybe? — and a Roman toga slashed to pieces and stained with something that looked disturbingly like dried 
blood. 

“Nbur Highness,” Piper said, trying to control her nerves. “Why don’t you tell the boys how you betrayed your family? I’m sure they’d like to hear that 
story.” 

Her words didn’t have any effect on the princess, but the boys turned, suddenly interested. 

“More story?” Leo asked. 

“I like more story!” Jason agreed. 

The princess flashed Piper an irritated look. “Oh, one will do strange things for love, Piper. You should know that. I fell for that young hero, in fact, 
because your mother Aphrodite had me under a spell. If it wasn’t for her — but I can’t hold a grudge against a goddess, can I?” 

The princess’s tone made her meaning clear: / can take it out on you. 

“But that hero took you with him when he fled Colchis,” Piper remembered. “Didn’t he, Your Highness? He married you just as he promised.” 

The look in the princess’s eyes made Piper want to apologize, but she didn’t back down. 

“At first,” Her Highness admitted, “it seemed he would keep his word. But even after I helped him steal my father’s treasure, he still needed my help. 
As we fled, my brother’s fleet came after us. His warships overtook us. He would have destroyed us, but I convinced my brother to come aboard our ship 
first and talk under a flag of truce. He trusted me.” 

“And you killed your own brother,” Piper said, the horrible story all coming back to her, along with a name — an infamous name that began with the 
letter M. 

“What?” Jason stirred. For a moment he looked almost like himself. “Killed your own — ” 

“No,” the princess snapped. “Those stories are lies. It was my new husband and his men who killed my brother, though they couldn’t have done it 
without my deception. They threw his body into the sea, and the pursuing fleet had to stop and search for it so they could give my brother a proper burial. 
This gave us time to get away. All this, I did for my husband. And he forgot our bargain. He betrayed me in the end.” 

Jason still looked uncomfortable. “What did he do?” 

The princess held the sliced-up toga against Jason’s chest, as if measuring him for an assassination. “Don’t you know the story, my boy? You of all 
people should. \fou were named for him.” 

“Jason,” Piper said. “The original Jason. But then you’re — you should be dead!” 

The princess smiled. “As I said, a new life in a new country. Certainly I made mistakes. I turned my back on my own people. I was called a traitor, a 
thief, a liar, a murderess. But I acted out of love.” She turned to the boys and gave them a pitiful look, batting her eyelashes. Piper could feel the sorcery 
washing over them, taking control more firmly than ever. 

“Wouldn’t you do the same for someone you loved, my dears?” 

“Oh, sure,” Jason said. 

“Okay,” Leo said. 

“Guys!” Piper ground her teeth in frustration. “Don’t you see who she is? Don’t you — ” 



“Let’s continue, shall we?” the princess said breezily. “I believe you wanted to talk about a price for the storm spirits — and your satyr; 



Leo got distracted on the second floor with the appliances. 

“No way,” he said. “Is that an armored forge?” 

Before Piper could stop him, he hopped off the escalator and ran over to a big oval oven that looked like a barbecue on steroids. 

When they caught up with him, the princess said, “You have good taste. This is the H-2000, designed by Hephaestus himself. Hot enough to melt 
Celestial bronze or Imperial gold.” 

Jason flinched as if he recognized that term. “Imperial gold?” 

The princess nodded. “Yes, my dear. Like that weapon so cleverly concealed in your pocket. To be properly forged, Imperial gold had to be 
consecrated in the Temple of Jupiter on Capitoline Hill in Rome. Quite a powerful and rare metal, but like the Roman emperors, quite volatile. Be sure 
never to break that blade..." She smiled pleasantly. “Rome was after my time, of course, but I do hear stories. And now over here — this golden throne is 
one of my finest luxury items. 

Hephaestus made it as a punishment for his mother, Hera. Sit in it and you’ll be immediately trapped." 

Leo apparently took this as an order. He began walking toward it in a trance. 

“Leo, don’t!” Piper warned. 

He blinked. “How much for both?” 

“Oh, the seat I could let you have for five great deeds. The forge, seven years of servitude. And for only a bit of your strength — ” She led Leo into the 
appliance section, giving him prices on various items. 

Piper didn’t want to leave him alone with her, but she had to try reasoning with Jason. She pulled him aside and slapped him across the face. 

“Ow,” he muttered sleepily. “What was that for?” 

“Snap out of it!” Piper hissed. 

“What do you mean?” 

“She’s charmspeaking you. Can’t you feel it?” 

He knit his eyebrows. “She seems okay.” 

“She’s not okay! She shouldn't even be alive! She was married to Jason — the other Jason — three thousand years ago. Remember what Boreas 
said — something about the souls no longer being confined to Hades? It’s not just monsters who can’t stay dead. She’s come back from the Underworld!” 
Jason shook his head uneasily. “She’s not a ghost.” 

“No, she’s worse! She’s — ’’ 

“Children.” The princess was back with Leo in tow. “If you please, we will now see what you came for. That is what you want, yes?” 

Piper had to choke back a scream. She was tempted to pull out her dagger and take on this witch herself, but she didn't like her chances — not in the 
middle of Her Highness’s department store while her friends were under a spell. Piper couldn’t even be sure they’d take her side in a fight. She had to 
figure out a better plan. 

They took the escalator down to the base of the fountain. For the first time, Piper noticed two large bronze sundials — each about the size of a 
trampoline — inlaid on the marble tile floor to the north and south of the fountain. The gilded oversize canary cages stood to the east and west, and the 
farthest one held the storm spirits. They were so densely packed, spinning around like a super-concentrated tornado, that Piper couldn’t tell how many 
there were — dozens, at least. 

“Hey,” Leo said, “Coach Hedge looks okay!” 

They ran to the nearest canary cage. The old satyr seemed to have been petrified at the moment he was sucked into the sky above the Grand 
Canyon. He was frozen mid-shout, his club raised over his head like he was ordering the gym class to drop and give him fifty. His curly hair stuck up at 
odd angles. If Piper just concentrated on certain details — the bright orange polo shirt, the wispy goatee, the whistle around his neck — she could imagine 
Coach Hedge as his good old annoying self. But it was hard to ignore the stubby horns on his head, and the fact that he had furry goat legs and hooves 
instead of workout pants and Nikes. 

“Nfes,” the princess said. “I always keep my wares in good condition. We can certainly barter for the storm spirits and the satyr. A package deal. If we 
come to terms, I’ll even throw in the vial of healing potion, and you can go in peace.” She gave Piper a shrewd look. “That’s better than starting 
unpleasantness, isn’t it, dear?” 

Dont trust her, warned a voice in her head. If Piper was right about this lady’s identity, nobody would be leaving in peace. A fair deal wasn't possible. 
It was all a trick. But her friends were looking at her, nodding urgently and mouthing, Say yes! Piper needed more to time to think. 

“We can negotiate,” she said. 

“Totally!” Leo agreed. “Name your price.” 

“Leo!” Piper snapped. 

The princess chuckled. “Name my price? Perhaps not the best haggling strategy, my boy, but at least you know a thing’s value. Freedom is very 
valuable indeed. Y)u would ask me to release this satyr, who attacked my storm winds — ” 

“Who attacked us,” Piper interjected. 

Her Highness shrugged. “As I said, my patron asks me for small favors from time to time. Sending the storm spirits to abduct you — that was one. I 
assure you it was nothing personal. And no harm done, as you came here, in the end, of your own free will! At any rate, you want the satyr freed, and you 
want my storm spirits — who are very valuable servants, by the way — so you can hand them over to that tyrant Aeolus. Doesn’t seem quite fair, does it? The 
price will be high.” 

Piper could see that her friends were ready to offer anything, promise anything. Before they could speak, she played her last card. 

“Ntiu’re Medea,” she said. “Nt>u helped the original Jason steal the Golden Fleece. You’re one of the most evil villains in Greek mythology. Jason, Leo 
— don't trust her.” 

Piper put all the intensity she could gather into those words. She was utterly sincere, and it seemed to have some effect. Jason stepped away from 
the sorceress. 

Leo scratched his head and looked around like he was coming out of a dream. 

“What are we doing, again?" 

“Boys!” The princess spread her hands in a welcoming gesture. Her diamond jewelry glittered, and her painted fingers curled like blood-tipped 
claws. “It’s true, I’m Medea. But I’m so misunderstood. Oh, Piper, my dear, you don't know what it was like for women in the old days. We had no power, 
no leverage. Often we couldn’t even choose our own husbands. But / was different. I chose my own destiny by becoming a sorceress. Is that so wrong? I 
made a pact with Jason: my help to win the fleece, in exchange for his love. A fair deal. He became a famous hero! Without me, he would’ve died 
unknown on the shores of Colchis.” 

Jason — Piper’s Jason — scowled. “Then ... you really did die three thousand years ago? \t>u came back from the Underworld?” 

“Death no longer holds me, young hero,” Medea said. “Thanks to my patron, I am flesh and blood again.” 




“Nt>u ... re-formed?” Leo blinked. “Like a monster?” 

Medea spread her fingers, and steam hissed from her nails, like water splashed on hot iron. “You have no idea what’s happening, do you, my dears? 
It is so much worse than a stirring of monsters from Tartarus. My patron knows that giants and monsters are not her greatest servants. / am mortal. I learn 
from my mistakes. And now that I have returned to the living, I will not be cheated again. Now, here is my price for what you ask." 

“Guys,” Piper said. “The original Jason left Medea because she was crazy and bloodthirsty.” 

“Lies!” Medea said. 

“On the way back from Colchis, Jason’s ship landed at another kingdom, and Jason agreed to dump Medea and marry the king’s daughter.” 

“After I bore him two children!” Medea said. “Still he broke his promise! I ask you, was that right?” 

Jason and Leo dutifully shook their heads, but Piper wasn’t through. 

“It may not have been right,” she said, “but neither was Medea’s revenge. She murdered her own children to get back at Jason. She poisoned his 
new wife and fled the kingdom.” 

Medea snarled. “An invention to ruin my reputation! The people of the Corinth — that unruly mob — killed my children and drove me out. Jason did 
nothing to protect me. He robbed me of everything. So yes, I sneaked back into the palace and poisoned his lovely new bride. It was only fair — a suitable 
price.” 

“Ntiu’re insane,” Piper said. 

“I am the victim!” Medea wailed. “I died with my dreams shattered, but no longer. I know now not to trust heroes. When they come asking for 
treasures, they will pay a heavy price. Especially when the one asking has the name of Jason!” 

The fountain turned bright red. Piper drew her dagger, but her hand was shaking almost too badly to hold it. “Jason, Leo — it’s time to go. Now." 
“Before you’ve closed the deal?” Medea asked. “What of your quest, boys? And my price is so easy. Did you know this fountain is magic? If a dead 
man were to be thrown into it, even if he was chopped to pieces, he would pop back out fully formed — stronger and more powerful than ever.” 

“Seriously?” Leo asked. 

“Leo, she’s lying,” Piper said. “She did that trick with somebody before — a king, I think. She convinced his daughters to cut him to pieces so he could 
come out of the water young and healthy again, but it just killed him!” 

“Ridiculous,” Medea said, and Piper could hear the power charged in every syllable. “Leo, Jason — my price is so simple. Why don't you two fight? If 
you get injured, or even killed, no problem. We’ll just throw you into the fountain and you’ll be better than ever. Nt>u do want to fight, don’t you? \bu resent 
each other!” 

“Guys, no!” Piper said. But they were already glaring at each other, as if it was just dawning on them how they really felt. 

Piper had never felt more helpless. Now she understood what real sorcery looked like. She’d always thought magic meant wands and fireballs, but 
this was worse. Medea didn’t just rely on poisons and potions. Her most potent weapon was her voice. 

Leo scowled. “Jason’s always the star. He always gets the attention and takes me for granted.” 

“Ntiu’re annoying, Leo,” Jason said. “\bu never take anything seriously. \bu can’t even fix a dragon.” 

“Stop!” Piper pleaded, but both drew weapons — Jason his gold sword, and Leo a hammer from his tool belt. 

“Let them go, Piper,” Medea urged. “I’m doing you a favor. Let it happen now, and it will make your choice so much easier. Enceladus will be pleased. 
\t>u could have your father back today!" 

Medea’s charmspeak didn’t work on her, but the sorceress still had a persuasive voice. Her father back today? Despite her best intentions, Piper 
wanted that. She wanted her father back so much, it hurt. 

“Nt>u work for Enceladus,” she said. 

Medea laughed. “Serve a giant? No. But we all serve the same greater cause — a patron you cannot begin to challenge. Walk away, child of 
Aphrodite. This does not have to be your death, too. Save yourself, and your father can go free.” 

Leo and Jason were still facing off, ready to fight, but they looked unsteady and confused — waiting for another order. Part of them had to be resisting, 
Piper hoped. This went completely against their nature. 

“Listen to me, girl." Medea plucked a diamond off her bracelet and threw it into a spray of water from the fountain. As it passed through the 
multicolored light, Medea said, “O Iris, goddess of the rainbow, show me the office of Tristan McLean.” 

The mist shimmered, and Piper saw her father’s study. Sitting behind his desk, talking on the phone, was her dad’s assistant, Jane, in her dark 
business suit, her hair swirled in a tight bun. 

“Hello, Jane,” Medea said. 

Jane hung up the phone calmly. “How can I help you, ma’am? Hello, Piper.” 

“Nt>u — ” Piper was so angry she could hardly talk. 

“Nfes, child,” Medea said. “Nt>ur father’s assistant. Quite easy to manipulate. An organized mind fora mortal, but incredibly weak.” 

“Thank you, ma’am,” Jane said. 

“Don’t mention it,” Medea said. “I just wanted to congratulate you, Jane. Getting Mr. McLean to leave town so suddenly, take his jet to Oakland without 
alerting the press or the police — well done! No one seems to know where he’s gone. And telling him his daughter’s life was on the line — that was a nice 
touch to get his cooperation.” 

“Nfes,” Jane agreed in a bland tone, as if she were sleepwalking. “He was quite cooperative when he believed Piper was in danger.” 

Piper looked down at her dagger. The blade trembled in her hand. She couldn’t use it for a weapon any better than Helen of Troy could, but it was still 
a looking glass, and what she saw in it was a scared girl with no chance of winning. 

“I may have new orders for you, Jane,” Medea said. “If the girl cooperates, it may be time for Mr. McLean to come home. Would you arrange a 
suitable cover story for his absence, just in case? And I imagine the poor man will need some time in a psychiatric hospital." 

“Nfes, ma’am. I will stand by.” 

The image faded, and Medea turned to Piper. “There, you see?” 

“Nt>u lured my dad into a trap,” Piper said. “Nt>u helped the giant — ’’ 

“Oh, please, dear. \bu’ll work yourself into a fit! I’ve been preparing for this war for years, even before I was brought back to life. I’m a seer, as I said. I 
can tell the future as well as your little oracle. Years ago, still suffering in the Fields of Punishment, I had a vision of the seven in your so-called Great 
Prophecy. I saw your friend Leo here, and saw that he would be an important enemy someday. I stirred the consciousness of my patron, gave her this 
information, and she managed to wake just a little — just enough to visit him.” 

“Leo’s mother,” Piper said. “Leo, listen to this! She helped get your mother killed!” 

“Uh-huh,” Leo mumbled, in a daze. He frowned at his hammer. “So ... I just attack Jason? That's okay?” 

“Perfectly safe,” Medea promised. “And Jason, strike him hard. Show me you are worthy of your namesake.” 

“No!” Piper ordered. She knew it was her last chance. “Jason, Leo — she’s tricking you. Put down your weapons." 

The sorceress rolled her eyes. “Please, girl. "vbu’re no match for me. I trained with my aunt, the immortal Circe. I can drive men mad or heal them with 
my voice. What hope do these puny young heroes have against me? Now, boys, kill each other!” 




“Jason, Leo, listen to me.” Piper put all of her emotion into her voice. For years she’d been trying to control herself and not show weakness, but now 
she poured everything into her words — her fear, her desperation, her anger. She knew she might be signing her dad’s death warrant, but she cared too 
much about her friends to let them hurt each other. “Medea is charming you. It’s part of her magic. You are best friends. Don’t fight each other. Fight her\" 

They hesitated, and Piper could feel the spell shatter. 

Jason blinked. “Leo, was I just about to stab you?” 

“Something about my mother ... ?” Leo frowned, then turned toward Medea. “Nt>u ... you’re working for Dirt Woman. You sent her to the machine 
shop.” He lifted his arm. “Lady, I got a three-pound hammer with your name on it.” 

“Bah!” Medea sneered. “I’ll simply collect payment another way." 

She pressed one of the mosaic tiles on the floor, and the building rumbled. Jason swung his sword at Medea, but she dissolved into smoke and 
reappeared at the base of the escalator. 

“Ntiu’re slow, hero!” She laughed. “Take your frustration out on my pets!” 

Before Jason could go after her, the giant bronze sundials at either end of the fountain swung open. Two snarling gold beasts — flesh-and-blood 
winged dragons — crawled out from the pits below. Each was the size of a camper van, maybe not large compared to Festus, but large enough. 

“So that’s what’s in the kennels,” Leo said meekly. 

The dragons spread their wings and hissed. Piper could feel the heat coming off their glittering skin. One turned his angry orange eyes on her. 

“Don’t look them in the eye!” Jason warned. “They’ll paralyze you." 

“Indeed!” Medea was leisurely riding the escalator up, leaning against the handrail as she watched the fun. “These two dears have been with me a 
long time — sun dragons, you know, gifts from my grandfather Helios. They pulled my chariot when I left Corinth, and now they will be your destruction. Ta- 
ta!” 

The dragons lunged. Leo and Jason charged to intercept. Piperwas amazed how fearlessly the boys attacked — working like a team who had trained 
together for years. 

Medea was almost to the second floor, where she’d be able to choose from a wide assortment of deadly appliances. 

“Oh, no, you don’t,” Piper growled, and took off after her. 

When Medea spotted Piper, she started climbing in earnest. She was quick for a three-thousand-year-old lady. Piper climbed at top speed, taking 
the steps three at a time, and still she couldn’t catch her. Medea didn’t stop at floor two. She hopped the next escalator and continued to ascend. 

The potions, Piper thought. Of course that’s what she would go for. She was famous for potions. 

Down below, Piper heard the battle raging. Leo was blowing his safety whistle, and Jason was yelling to keep the dragons’ attention. Piper didn’t 
dare look — not while she was running with a dagger in her hand. She could just see herself tripping and stabbing herself in the nose. That would be super 
heroic. 

She grabbed a shield from an armored manikin on floor three and continued to climb. She imagined Coach Hedge yelling in her mind, just like back 
in gym class at Wilderness School: Move it, McLean! You call that escalator-climbing? 

She reached the top floor, breathing hard, but she was too late. Medea had reached the potions counter. 

The sorceress grabbed a swan-shaped vial — the blue one that caused painful death — and Piper did the only thing that came to mind. She threw her 
shield. 

Medea turned triumphantly just in time to get hit in the chest by a fifty-pound metal Frisbee. She stumbled backward, crashing over the counter, 
breaking vials and knocking down shelves. When the sorceress stood from the wreckage, her dress was stained a dozen different colors. Many of the 
stains were smoldering and glowing. 

“Fool!” Medea wailed. “Do you have any idea what so many potions will do when mixed?" 

“Kill you?” Piper said hopefully. 

The carpet began to steam around Medea’s feet. She coughed, and her face contorted in pain — or was she faking? 

Below, Leo called, “Jason, help!” 

Piper risked a quick look, and almost sobbed in despair. One of the dragons had Leo pinned to the floor. It was baring its fangs, ready to snap. 
Jason was all the way across the room battling the other dragon, much too far away to assist. 

“Ntiu’ve doomed us all!” Medea screamed. Smoke was rolling across the carpet as the stain spread, throwing sparks and setting fires in the clothing 
racks. “You have only seconds before this concoction consumes everything and destroys the building. There’s no time — ” 

CRASH! The stained glass ceiling splintered in a rain of multicolored shards, and Festus the bronze dragon dropped into the department store. 

He hurtled into the fray, snatching up a sun dragon in each claw. Only now did Piper appreciate just how big and strong their metal friend was. 

“That’s my boy!” Leo yelled. 

Festus flew haltway up the atrium, then hurled the sun dragons into the pits they’d come from. Leo raced to the fountain and pressed the marble tile, 
closing the sundials. They shuddered as the dragons banged against them, trying to get out, but for the moment they were contained. 

Medea cursed in some ancient language. The whole fourth floor was on fire now. The air filled with noxious gas. Even with the roof open, Piper could 
feel the heat intensifying. She backed up to the edge of the railing, keeping her dagger pointed toward Medea. 

“I will not be abandoned again!” The sorceress knelt and snatched up the red healing potion, which had somehow survived the crash. “\bu want your 
boyfriend’s memory restored? Take me with you!” 

Piper glanced behind her. Leo and Jason were on board Festus’s back. The bronze dragon flapped his mighty wings, snatched the two cages with 
the satyr and the storm spirits in his claws, and began to ascend. 

The building rumbled. Fire and the smoke curled up the walls, melting the railings, turning the air to acid. 

“Ntiu’ll never survive your quest without me!” Medea growled. “Nt>ur boy hero will stay ignorant forever, and your father will die. Take me with you!” 

For one heartbeat, Piper was tempted. Then she saw Medea’s grim smile. The sorceress was confident in her powers of persuasion, confident that 
she could always make a deal, always escape and win in the end. 

“Not today, witch.” Piper jumped over the side. She plummeted for only a second before Leo and Jason caught her, hauling her aboard the dragon. 

She heard Medea screaming in rage as they soared through the broken roof and over downtown Chicago. Then the department store exploded 
behind them. 




XXIX 



LEO 

Leo KEPT LOOKING BACK He HALF EXPECTED to see those nasty sun dragons toting a flying chariot with a screaming magical saleswoman throwing potions, but 
nothing followed them. 

He steered the dragon toward the southwest. Eventually, the smoke from the burning department store faded in the distance, but Leo didn’t relax until 
the suburbs of Chicago gave way to snowy fields, and the sun began to set. 

“Good job, Festus.” He patted the dragon’s metal hide. “\bu did awesome.” 

The dragon shuddered. Gears popped and clicked in his neck. 

Leo frowned. He didn’t like those noises. If the control disk was failing again — No, hopefully it was something minor. Something he could fix. 

“I’ll give you a tune-up next time we land,” Leo promised. “You’ve earned some motor oil and Tabasco sauce.” 

Festus whirled his teeth, but even that sounded weak. He flew at a steady pace, his great wings angling to catch the wind, but he was carrying a 
heavy load. Two cages in his claws plus three people on his back — the more Leo thought about it, the more worried he got. Even metal dragons had 
limits. 

“Leo.” Piper patted his shoulder. “You feeling okay?” 

“>feah ... not bad for a brainwashed zombie.” He hoped he didn’t look as embarrassed as he felt. “Thanks for saving us back there, beauty queen. If 
you hadn’t talked me out of that spell — ” 

“Don’t worry about it,” Piper said. 

But Leo worried a lot. He felt terrible about how easily Medea had set him against his best friend. And those feelings hadn’t come from nowhere — his 
resentment of the way Jason always got the spotlight and didn’t really seem to need him. Leo did feel that way sometimes, even if he wasn’t proud of it. 

What bothered him more was the news about his mom. Medea had seen the future down in the Underworld. That was how her patron, the woman in 
the black earthen robes, had come to the machine shop seven years ago to scare him, ruin his life. That’s how his mother had died — because of 
something Leo might do someday. So in a weird way, even if his fire powers weren’t to blame, Mom’s death was still his fault. 

When they had left Medea in that exploding store, Leo had felt a little too good. He hoped she wouldn’t make it out, and would go right back to the 
Fields of Punishment, where she belonged. Those feelings didn’t make him proud, either. 

And if souls were coming back from the Underworld . . .was it possible Leo’s mom could be brought back? 

He tried to put the idea aside. That was Frankenstein thinking. It wasn’t natural. It wasn’t right. Medea might’ve been brought back to life, but she 
hadn’t seemed quite human, with the hissing nails and the glowing head and whatnot. 

No, Leo’s mom had passed on. Thinking any other way would just drive Leo nuts. Still, the thought kept poking at him, like an echo of Medea’s voice. 
“We’re going to have to put down soon,” he warned his friends. “Couple more hours, maybe, to make sure Medea’s not following us. I don’t think 
Festus can fly much longer than that.” 

“>feah,” Piper agreed. “Coach Hedge probably wants to get out of his canary cage, too. Question is — where are we going?” 

“The Bay Area,” Leo guessed. His memories of the department store were fuzzy, but he seemed to remember hearing that. “Didn’t Medea say 
something about Oakland?” 

Piper didn’t respond for so long, Leo wondered if he’d said something wrong. 

“Piper’s dad,” Jason put in. “Something’s happened to your dad, right? He got lured into some kind of trap.” 

Piper let out a shaky breath. “Look, Medea said you would both die in the Bay Area. And besides ... even if we went there, the Bay Area is huge! 
First we need to find Aeolus and drop off the storm spirits. Boreas said Aeolus was the only one who could tell us exactly where to go.” 

Leo grunted. “So how do we find Aeolus?” 

Jason leaned forward. “You mean you don’t see it?” He pointed ahead of them, but Leo didn’t see anything except clouds and the lights of a few 
towns glowing in the dusk. 

“What?” Leo asked. “That ... whatever it is,” Jason said. “In the air.” 

Leo glanced back. Piper looked just as confused as he was. 

“Right,” Leo said. “Could you be more specific on the ‘whatever-it-is’ part?” 

“Like a vapor trail,” Jason said. “Except it’s glowing. Really faint, but it’s definitely there. We’ve been following it since Chicago, so I figured you saw 
it.” 

Leo shook his head. “Maybe Festus can sense it. You think Aeolus made it?” 

“Well, it’s a magic trail in the wind,” Jason said. “Aeolus is the wind god. I think he knows we’ve got prisoners for him. He's telling us where to fly.” 

“Or it’s another trap,” Piper said. 

Her tone worried Leo. She didn’t just sound nervous. She sounded broken with despair, like they’d already sealed their fate, and like it was her fault. 
“Pipes, you all right?” he asked. 

“Don’t call me that.” 

“Okay, fine. You don’t like any of the names I make up for you. But if your dad’s in trouble and we can help — ” 

“\t>u can’t,” she said, her voice getting shakier. “Look, I’m tired. If you don’t mind ...” 

She leaned back against Jason and closed her eyes. 

All right, Leo thought — pretty clear signal she didn’t want to talk. 

They flew in silence for a while. Festus seemed to know where he was going. He kept his course, gently curving toward the southwest and hopefully 
Aeolus’s fortress. Another wind god to visit, a whole new flavor of crazy — Oh, boy, Leo couldn’t wait. 

He had way too much on his mind to sleep, but now that he was out danger, his body had different ideas. His energy level was crashing. The 
monotonous beat of the dragon's wings made his eyes feel heavy. His head started to nod. 

“Catch a few Z’s," Jason said. “It’s cool. Hand me the reins." 

“Nah, I’m okay — ” 

“Leo,” Jason said, “you’re not a machine. Besides, I’m the only one who can see the vapor trail. I'll make sure we stay on course.” 

Leo’s eyes started to close on their own. “All right. Maybe just ...” 

He didn’t finish the sentence before slumping forward against the dragon’s warm neck. 



In his dream, he heard a voice full of static, like a bad AM radio: “Hello? Is this thing working?” 

Leo’s vision came into focus — sort of. Everything was hazy and gray, with bands of interference running across his sight. He’d never dreamed with a 
bad connection before. 

He seemed to be in a workshop. Out of the corners of his eyes he saw bench saws, metal lathes, and tool cages. A forge glowed cheerfully against 
one wall. 

It wasn’t the camp forge — too big. Not Bunker 9 — much warmer and more comfortable, obviously not abandoned. 

Then Leo realized something was blocking the middle of his view — something large and fuzzy, and so close, Leo had to cross his eyes to see it 
properly. It was a large ugly face. 

“Holy mother!” he yelped. 

The face backed away and came into focus. Staring down at him was a bearded man in grimy blue coveralls. His face was lumpy and covered with 
welts, as if he’d been bitten by a million bees, or dragged across gravel. Possibly both. 

“Humph,” the man said. “Holy father, boy. I should think you’d know the difference.” 

Leo blinked. “Hephaestus?” 

Being in the presence of his father for the first time, Leo probably should’ve been speechless or awestruck or something. But after what he’d been 
through the last couple of days, with Cyclopes and a sorceress and a face in the potty sludge, all Leo felt was a surge of complete annoyance. 

“Now you show up?” he demanded. “After fifteen years? Great parenting, Fur Face. Where do you get off sticking your ugly nose into my dreams?” 
The god raised an eyebrow. A little spark caught fire in his beard. Then he threw back his head and laughed so loudly, the tools rattled on the 
workbenches. 

“Nt>u sound just like your mother,” Hephaestus said. “I miss Esperanza.” 

“She’s been dead seven years.” Leo’s voice trembled. “Not that you’d care.” 

“But I do care, boy. About both of you.” 

“Uh-huh. Which is why I never saw you before today.” 

The god made a rumbling sound in his throat, but he looked more uncomfortable than angry. He pulled a miniature motor from his pocket and began 
fiddling absently with the pistons — just the way Leo did when he was nervous. 

“I’m not good with children,” the god confessed. “Or people. Well, any organic life forms, really. I thought about speaking to you at your mom’s funeral. 
Then again when you were in fifth grade . . . that science project you made, steam-powered chicken chucker. Very impressive.” 

“Nt>u saw that?” 

Hephaestus pointed to the nearest worktable, where a shiny bronze mirror showed a hazy image of Leo asleep on the dragon’s back. 

“Is that me?” Leo asked. “Like — me right now, having this dream — looking at me having a dream?” 

Hephaestus scratched his beard. “Now you’ve confused me. But yes — it’s you. I’m always keeping an eye on you, Leo. But talking to you is, urn ... 
different.” 

“Ntiu’re scared,” Leo said. 

“Grommets and gears!” the god yelled. “Of course not!” 

“Nfeah, you’re scared.” But Leo’s anger seeped away. He’d spent years thinking about what he’d say to his dad if they ever met — how Leo would 
chew him out for being a deadbeat. Now, looking at that bronze mirror, Leo thought about his dad watching his progress over the years, even his stupid 
science experiments. 

Maybe Hephaestus was still a jerk, but Leo kind of understood where he was coming from. Leo knew about running away from people, not fitting in. 
He knew about hiding out in a workshop rather than trying to deal with organic life forms. 

“So,” Leo grumbled, “you keep track of all your kids? \bu got like twelve back at camp. How’d you even — Never mind. I don’t want to know.” 
Hephaestus might’ve blushed, but his face was so beat up and red, it was hard to tell. “Gods are different from mortals, boy. We can exist in many 
places at once — wherever people call on us, wherever our sphere of influence is strong. In fact, it’s rare our entire essence is ever together in one place 
— our true form. It’s dangerous, powerful enough to destroy any mortal who looks upon us. So, yes . . . lots of children. Add to that our different aspects, 
Greek and Roman — ” The god’s fingers froze on his engine project. “Er, that is to say, being a god is complicated. And yes, I try to keep an eye on all my 
children, but you especially.” 

Leo was pretty sure Hephaestus had almost slipped and said something important, but he wasn’t sure what. 

“Why contact me now?” Leo asked. “I thought the gods had gone silent.” 

“We have,” Hephaestus grumped. “Zeus’s orders — very strange, even for him. He’s blocked all visions, dreams, and Iris-messages to and from 
Olympus. Hermes is sitting around bored out of his mind because he can’t deliver the mail. Fortunately, I kept my old pirate broadcasting equipment.” 
Hephaestus patted a machine on the table. It looked like a combination satellite dish, V-6 engine, and espresso maker. Each time Hephaestus 
jostled the machine, Leo’s dream flickered and changed color. 

“Used this in the Cold War,” the god said fondly. “Radio Free Hephaestus. Those were the days. I keep it around for pay-for-view, mostly, or making 
viral brain videos — ” 

“Viral brain videos?” 

“But now it’s come in handy again. If Zeus knew I was contacting you, he’d have my hide.” 

“Why is Zeus being such a jerk?” 

“Hrumph. He excels at that, boy.” Hephaestus called him boy as if Leo were an annoying machine part — an extra washer, maybe, that had no clear 
purpose, but that Hephaestus didn’t want to throw away for fear he might need it someday. 

Not exactly heartwarming. Then again, Leo wasn't sure he wanted to be called “son.” Leo wasn’t about to start calling this big awkward ugly guy 
“Dad.” 

Hephaestus got tired of his engine and tossed it over his shoulder. Before it could hit the floor, it sprouted helicopter wings and flew itself into a 
recycling bin. 

“It was the second Titan War, I suppose,” Hephaestus said. “That’s what got Zeus upset. We gods were . . . well, embarrassed. Don’t think there’s any 
other way to say it.” 

“But you won,” Leo said. 

The god grunted. “We won because the demigods of’ — again he hesitated, as if he’d almost made a slip — “of Camp Half-Blood took the lead. We 
won because our children fought our battles for us, smarter than we did. If we’d relied on Zeus’s plan, we would’ve all gone down to Tartarus fighting the 
storm giant Typhon, and Kronos would’ve won. Bad enough mortals won our war for us, but then that young upstart, Percy Jackson — ” 

“The guy who’s missing.” 

“Hmph. Yes. Him. He had the nerve to turn down our offer of immortality and tell us to pay better attention to our children. Er, no offense.” 

“Oh, how could I take offense? Please, go on ignoring me.” 




“Mighty understanding of you ...” Hephaestus frowned, then sighed wearily. “That was sarcasm, wasn’t it? Machines don’t have sarcasm, usually. But 
as I was saying, the gods felt ashamed, shown up by mortals. At first, of course, we were grateful. But after a few months, those feelings turned bitter. 
We’re gods, after all. We need to be admired, looked up to, held in awe and admiration.” 

“Even if you’re wrong?” 

“Especially then! And to have Jackson refuse our gift, as if being mortal were somehow better than being a god... well, that stuck in Zeus’s craw. He 
decided it was high time we got back to traditional values. Gods were to be respected. Our children were to be seen and not visited. Olympus was 
closed. At least that was part of his reasoning. And, of course, we started hearing of bad things stirring under the earth.” 

“The giants, you mean. Monsters re-forming instantly. The dead rising again. Little stuff like that?” 

“Aye, boy.” Hephaestus turned a knob on his pirate broadcasting machine. Leo’s dream sharpened to full color, but the god’s face was such a riot of 
red welts and yellow and black bruises, Leo wished it would go back to black and white. 

“Zeus thinks he can reverse the tide,” the god said, “lull the earth back to sleep as long as we stay quiet. None of us really believes that. And I don’t 
mind saying, we’re in no shape to fight another war. We barely survived the Titans. If we’re repeating the old pattern, what comes next is even worse.” 

“The giants,” Leo said. “Hera said demigods and gods had to join forces to defeat them. Is that true?” 

“Mmm. I hate to agree with my mother about anything, but yes. Those giants are tough to kill, boy. They’re a different breed.” 

“Breed? You make them sound like racehorses.” 

“Ha!” the god said. “More like war dogs. Back in the beginning, y’see, everything in creation came from the same parents — Gaea and Ouranos, 
Earth and Sky. They had their different batches of children — your Titans, your Elder Cyclopes, and so forth. Then Kronos, the head Titan — well, you’ve 
probably heard how he chopped up his father Ouranos with a scythe and took over the world. Then we gods came along, children of the Titans, and 
defeated them. But that wasn’t the end of it. The earth bore a new batch of children, except they were sired by Tartarus, the spirit of the eternal abyss — the 
darkest, most evil place in the Underworld. Those children, the giants, were bred for one purpose — revenge on us for the fall of the Titans. They rose up to 
destroy Olympus, and they came awfully close.” 

Hephaestus’s beard began to smolder. He absently swatted out the flames. “What my blasted mother Hera is doing now — she’s a meddling fool 
playing a dangerous game, but she’s right about one thing: you demigods have to unite. That’s the only way to open Zeus’s eyes, convince the Olympians 
they must accept your help. And that’s the onlywayto defeat what’s coming. Tfciu’re a big part of that, Leo. ” 

The god’s gaze seemed far away. Leo wondered if really could split himself into different parts — where else was he right now? Maybe his Greek side 
was fixing a car or going on a date, while his Roman side was watching a ball game and ordering pizza. Leo tried to imagine what it would feel like to 
have multiple personalities. He hoped it wasn’t hereditary. 

“Why me?” he asked, and as soon as he said it, more questions flooded out. “Why claim me now? Why not when I was thirteen, like you’re supposed 
to? Or you could've claimed me at seven, before my mom died! Why didn't you find me earlier? Why didn't you warn me about this?” 

Leo’s hand burst into flames. 

Hephaestus regarded him sadly. “Hardest part, boy. Letting my children walk their own paths. Interfering doesn’t work. The Fates make sure of that. 
As for the claiming, you were a special case, boy. The timing had to be right. I can’t explain it much more, but — ” 

Leo’s dream went fuzzy. Just for a moment, it turned into a rerun of Wheel of Fortune . Then Hephaestus came back into focus. 

“Blast,” he said. “I can’t talk much longer. Zeus is sensing an illegal dream. He is lord of the air, after all, including the airwaves. Just listen, boy: you 
have a role to play. Ntiur friend Jason is right — fire is a gift, not a curse. I don’t give that blessing to just anyone. They’ll never defeat the giants without you, 
much less the mistress they serve. She’s worse than any god or Titan." 

“Who?” Leo demanded. 

Hephaestus frowned, his image becoming fuzzier. “I told you. Yes, I’m pretty sure I told you. Just be warned: along the way, you’re going to lose some 
friends and some valuable tools. 

But that isn’t your fault, Leo. Nothing lasts forever, not even the best machines. And everything can be reused.” 

“What do you mean? I don’t like the sound of that.” 

“No, you shouldn’t.” Hephaestus’s image was barely visible now, just a blob in the static. “Just watch out for — ” 

Leo’s dream switched to Wheel of Fortune just as the wheel hit Bankrupt and the audience said, “Awwww!” 

Then Leo snapped awake to Jason and Piper screaming. 




XXX 



LEO 

They spiraled through the dark in a free fall, still on the dragon’s back, but Festus’s hide was cold. His ruby eyes were dim. 

“Not again!” Leo yelled. “You can't fall again!” 

He could barely hold on. The wind stung his eyes, but he managed to pull open the panel on the dragon’s neck. He toggled the switches. He tugged 
the wires. The dragon’s wings flapped once, but Leo caught a whiff of burning bronze. The drive system was overloaded. Festus didn’t have the strength 
to keep flying, and Leo couldn’t get to the main control panel on the dragon’s head — not in midair. He saw the lights of a city below them — just flashes in 
the dark as they plummeted in circles. They had only seconds before they crashed. 

“Jason!” he screamed. “Take Piper and fly out of here!” 

“What?” 

“We need to lighten the load! I might be able to reboot Festus, but he’s carrying too much weight!” 

“What about you?” Piper cried. “If you can’t reboot him — ■” 

“I’ll be fine,” Leo yelled. “Just follow me to the ground. Go!” 

Jason grabbed Piper around the waist. They both unbuckled their harnesses, and in a flash they were gone — shooting into the air. 

“Now,” Leo said. “Just you and me, Festus — and two heavy cages. \bu can do it, boy!” 

Leo talked to the dragon while he worked, falling at terminal velocity. He could see the city lights below him, getting closer and closer. He summoned 
fire in his hand so he could see what he was doing, but the wind kept extinguishing it. 

He pulled a wire that he thought connected the dragon’s nerve center to its head, hoping for a little wake-up jolt. 

Festus groaned — metal creaking inside his neck. His eyes flickered weakly to life, and he spread his wings. Their fall turned into a steep glide. 
“Good!” Leo said. “Come on, big boy. Come on!” 

They were still flying in way too hot, and the ground was too close. Leo needed a place to land — fast. 

There was a big river — no. Not good for a fire-breathing dragon. He'd never get Festus out from the bottom if he sank, especially in freezing 
temperatures. Then, on the riverbanks, Leo spotted a white mansion with a huge snowy lawn inside a tall brick perimeter fence — like some rich person’s 
private compound, all of it blazing with light. A perfect landing field. He did his best to steer the dragon toward it, and Festus seemed to come back to life. 
They could make this! 

Then everything went wrong. As they approached the lawn, spotlights along the fence fixed on them, blinding Leo. He heard bursts like tracer fire, the 
sound of metal being cut to shreds — and BOOM. 

Leo blacked out. 

When Leo came to his senses, Jason and Piper were leaning over him. He was lying in the snow, covered in mud and grease. He spit a clump of frozen 
grass out of his mouth. 

“Where — ” 

“Lie still.” Piper had tears in her eyes. “You rolled pretty hard when — when Festus — ” 

“Where is he?” Leo sat up, but his head felt like it was floating. They’d landed inside the compound. Something had happened on the way in 
— gunfire? 

“Seriously, Leo,” Jason said. “>bu could be hurt. \bu shouldn't—” 

Leo pushed himself to his feet. Then he saw the wreckage. Festus must have dropped the big canary cages as he came over the fence, because 
they’d rolled in different directions and landed on their sides, perfectly undamaged. 

Festus hadn’t been so lucky. 

The dragon had disintegrated. His limbs were scattered across the lawn. His tail hung on the fence. The main section of his body had plowed a 
trench twenty feet wide and fifty feet long across the mansion's yard before breaking apart. What remained of his hide was a charred, smoking pile of 
scraps. Only his neck and head were somewhat intact, resting across a row of frozen rosebushes like a pillow. 

“No,” Leo sobbed. He ran to the dragon’s head and stroked its snout. The dragon’s eyes flickered weakly. Oil leaked out of his ear. 

“>bu can’t go,” Leo pleaded. “You’re the best thing I ever fixed.” 

The dragon’s head whirred its gears, as if it were purring. Jason and Piper stood next to him, but Leo kept his eyes fixed on the dragon. 

He remembered what Hephaestus had said: That isn’t your fault, Leo. Nothing lasts forever, not even the best machines. 

His dad had been trying to warn him. 

“It’s not fair,” he said. 

The dragon clicked. Long creak. Two short clicks. Creak. Creak. Almost like a pattern ... triggering an old memory in Leo’s mind. Leo realized 
Festus was trying to say something. He was using Morse code — just like Leo’s mom had taught him years ago. Leo listened more intently, translating the 
clicks into letters: a simple message repeating over and over. 

“>feah,” Leo said. “I understand. I will. I promise.” 

The dragon's eyes went dark. Festus was gone. 

Leo cried. He wasn’t even embarrassed. His friends stood on either side, patting his shoulders, saying comforting things; but the buzzing in Leo’s 
ears drowned out their words. 

Finally Jason said, “I’m so sorry, man. What did you promise Festus?" 

Leo sniffled. He opened the dragon’s head panel, just to be sure, but the control disk was cracked and burned beyond repair. 

“Something my dad told me,” Leo said. “Everything can be reused.” 

“\t>ur dad talked to you?” Jason asked. “When was this?” 

Leo didn’t answer. He worked at the dragon’s neck hinges until the head was detached. It weighed about a hundred pounds, but Leo managed to 
hold it in his arms. He looked up at the starry sky and said, “Take him back to the bunker, Dad. Please, until I can reuse him. I’ve never asked you for 
anything.” 

The wind picked up, and the dragon’s head floated out of Leo’s arms like it weighed nothing. It flew into the sky and disappeared. 

Piper looked at him in amazement. “He answered you?” 



“I had a dream,” Leo managed. “Tell you later.” 

He knew he owed his friends a better explanation, but Leo could barely speak. He felt like a broken machine himself — like someone had removed 
one little part of him, and now he’d never be complete. He might move, he might talk, he might keep going and do his job. But he’d always be off balance, 
never calibrated exactly right. 

Still, he couldn’t afford to break down completely. Otherwise, Festus had died for nothing. He had to finish this quest — for his friends, for his mom, for 
his dragon. 

He looked around. The large white mansion glowed in the center of the grounds. Tall brick walls with lights and security cameras surrounded the 
perimeter, but now Leo could see — or rather sense — just how well those walls were defended. 

“Where are we?” he asked. “I mean, what city?” 

“Omaha, Nebraska,” Piper said. “I saw a billboard as we flew in. But I don’t know what this mansion is. We came in right behind you, but as you were 
landing, Leo, I swear it looked like — I don’t know — ” 

“Lasers,” Leo said. He picked up a piece of dragon wreckage and threw it toward the top of the fence. Immediately a turret popped up from the brick 
wall and a beam of pure heat incinerated the bronze plating to ashes. 

Jason whistled. “Some defense system. How are we even alive?" 

“Festus,” Leo said miserably. “He took the fire. The lasers sliced him to bits as he came in so they didn't focus on you. I led him into a death trap.” 

“Nt>u couldn’t have known,” Piper said. “He saved our lives again.” 

“But what now?” Jason said. “The main gates are locked, and I’m guessing I can’t fly us out of here without getting shot down.” 

Leo looked up the walkway at the big white mansion. “Since we can’t go out, we’ll have to go in.” 




XXXI 



JASON 

Jason would’ve died rve times on the way to the front door if not for Leo. 

First it was the motion-activated trapdoor on the sidewalk, then the lasers on the steps, then the nerve gas dispenser on the porch railing, the 
pressure-sensitive poison spikes in the welcome mat, and of course the exploding doorbell. 

Leo deactivated all of them. It was like he could smell the traps, and he picked just the right tool out of his belt to disable them. 

“Nbu’re amazing, man,” Jason said. 

Leo scowled as he examined the front door lock. ‘‘Yeah, amazing,” he said. “Can’t fix a dragon right, but I'm amazing.” 

“Hey, that wasn’t your — ” 

“Front door’s already unlocked,” Leo announced. 

Piper stared at the door in disbelief. “It is? All those traps, and the door’s unlocked?” 

Leo turned the knob. The door swung open easily. He stepped inside without hesitation. 

Before Jason could follow, Piper caught his arm. “He’s going to need some time to get over Festus. Don’t take it personally.” 

“>feah,” Jason said. “Yeah, okay.” 

But still he felt terrible. Back in Medea’s store, he’d said some pretty harsh stuff to Leo — stuff a friend shouldn’t say, not to mention the fact he’d 
almost skewered Leo with a sword. If it hadn’t been for Piper, they’d both be dead. And Piper hadn’t gotten out of that encounter easily, either. 

“Piper,” he said, “I know I was in a daze back in Chicago, but that stuff about your dad — if he’s in trouble, I want to help. I don’t care if it’s a trap or not.” 
Her eyes were always different colors, but now they looked shattered, as if she’d seen something she just couldn’t cope with. “Jason, you don’t know 
what you’re saying. Please — don’t make me feel worse. Come on. We should stick together.” 

She ducked inside. 

“Together,” Jason said to himself. “Yeah, we’re doing great with that.” 

Jason’s first impression of the house: Dark. 

From the echo of his footsteps he could tell the entry hall was enormous, even bigger than Boreas’s penthouse; but the only illumination came from 
the yard lights outside. A faint glow peeked through the breaks in the thick velvet curtains. The windows rose about ten feet tall. Spaced between them 
along the walls were life-size metal statues. As Jason’s eyes adjusted, he saw sofas arranged in a U in the middle of the room, with a central coffee table 
and one large chair at the far end. A massive chandelier glinted overhead. Along the back wall stood a row of closed doors. 

“Where’s the light switch?” His voice echoed alarmingly through the room. 

“Don’t see one,” Leo said. 

“Fire?” Piper suggested. 

Leo held out his hand, but nothing happened. “It’s not working.” 

“Nbur fire is out? Why?” Piper asked. 

“Well, if I knew that — 

“Okay, okay,” she said. “What do we do — explore?” 

Leo shook his head. “After all those traps outside? Bad idea.” 

Jason’s skin tingled. He hated being a demigod. Looking around, he didn’t see a comfortable room to hang out in. He imagined vicious storm spirits 
lurking in the curtains, dragons under the carpet, a chandelier made of lethal ice shards, ready to impale them. 

“Leo’s right,” he said. “We’re not separating again — not like in Detroit.” 

“Oh, thank you for reminding me of the Cyclopes.” Piper’s voice quavered. “I needed that.” 

“It’s a few hours until dawn,” Jason guessed. “Too cold to wait outside. Let’s bring the cages in and make camp in this room. Wait for daylight; then 
we can decide what to do.” 

Nobody offered a better idea, so they rolled in the cages with Coach Hedge and the storm spirits, then settled in. Thankfully, Leo didn’t find any 
poison throw pillows or electric whoopee cushions on the sofas. 

Leo didn’t seem in the mood to make more tacos. Besides, they had no fire, so they settled for cold rations. 

As Jason ate, he studied the metal statues along the walls. They looked like Greek gods or heroes. Maybe that was a good sign. Or maybe they 
were used for target practice. On the coffee table sat a tea service and a stack of glossy brochures, but Jason couldn’t make out the words. The big chair 
at the other end of the table looked like a throne. None of them tried to sit in it. 

The canary cages didn’t make the place any less creepy. The venti kept churning in their prison, hissing and spinning, and Jason got the 
uncomfortable feeling they were watching him. He could sense their hatred for the children of Zeus — the lord of the sky who’d ordered Aeolus to imprison 
their kind. The venti would like nothing better than to tear Jason apart. 

As for Coach Hedge, he was still frozen mid-shout, his cudgel raised. Leo was working on the cage, trying to open it with various tools, but the lock 
seemed to be giving him a hard time. Jason decided not to sit next to him in case Hedge suddenly unfroze and went into ninja goat mode. 

Despite how wired he felt, once his stomach was full, Jason started to nod off. The couches were a little too comfortable — a lot better than a 
dragon’s back — and he’d taken the last two watches while his friends slept. He was exhausted. 

Piper had already curled up on the other sofa. Jason wondered if she was really asleep or dodging a conversation about her dad. Whatever Medea 
had meant in Chicago, about Piper getting her dad back if she cooperated — it didn’t sound good. If Piper had risked her own dad to save them, that 
made Jason feel even guiltier. 

And they were running out of time. If Jason had his days straight, this was early morning of December 20. Which meant tomorrow was the winter 
solstice. 

“Get some sleep,” Leo said, still working on the locked cage. “It’s your turn.” 

Jason took a deep breath. “Leo, I’m sorry about that stuff I said in Chicago. That wasn’t me. You’re not annoying and you do take stuff seriously 
— especially your work. I wish I could do half the things you can do.” 

Leo lowered his screwdriver. He looked at the ceiling and shook his head like, What am I gonna do with this guy? 



“I try very hard to be annoying,” Leo said. “Don’t insult my ability to annoy. And how am I supposed to resent you if you go apologizing? I’m a lowly 
mechanic. \t>u’re like the prince of the sky, son of the Lord of the Universe. I’m supposed to resent you.” 

“Lord of the Universe?” 

“Sure, you’re all — bam! Lightning man. And ‘Watch me fly. I am the eagle that soars — ’” 

“Shut up, Valdez.” 

Leo managed a little smile. “Yeah, see. I do annoy you.” 

“I apologize for apologizing.” 

“Thank you.” He went back to work, but the tension had eased between them. Leo still looked sad and exhausted — just not quite so angry. 

“Go to sleep, Jason,” he ordered. “It’s gonna take a few hours to get this goat man free. Then I still got to figure out how to make the winds a smaller 
holding cell, ’cause I am not lugging that canary cage to California." 

“Nt>u did fix Festus, you know,” Jason said. “Nt>u gave him a purpose again. I think this quest was the high point of his life.” 

Jason was afraid he’d blown it and made Leo mad again, but Leo just sighed. 

“I hope,” he said. “Now, sleep, man. I want some time without you organic life forms.” 

Jason wasn’t quite sure what that meant, but he didn’t argue. He closed his eyes and had a long, blissfully dreamless sleep. 

He only woke when the yelling started. 

“Ahhhggggggh!” 

Jason leaped to his feet. He wasn’t sure what was more jarring — the full sunlight that now bathed the room, or the screaming satyr. 

“Coach is awake,” Leo said, which was kind of unnecessary. Gleeson Hedge was capering around on his furry hindquarters, swinging his club and 
yelling, “Die!” as he smashed the tea set, whacked the sofas, and charged at the throne. 

“Coach!” Jason yelled. 

Hedge turned, breathing hard. His eyes were so wild, Jason was afraid he might attack. The satyr was still wearing his orange polo shirt and his 
coach's whistle, but his horns were clearly visible above his curly hair, and his beefy hindquarters were definitely all goat. Could you call a goat beefy ? 
Jason put the thought aside. 

“Ntru’re the new kid,” Hedge said, lowering his club. “Jason.” He looked at Leo, then Piper, who’d apparently also just woken up. Her hair looked like it 
had become a nest for a friendly hamster. 

“Valdez, McLean,” the coach said. “What’s going on? We were at the Grand Canyon. The anemoi thuellai were attacking and — ” He zeroed in on the 
storm spirit cage, and his eyes went back to DEFCON 1 . “Die!” 

“Whoa, Coach!” Leo stepped in his path, which was pretty brave, even though Hedge was six inches shorter. “It’s okay. They’re locked up. We just 
sprang you from the other cage.” 

“Cage? Cage? What’s going on? Just because I’m a satyr doesn’t mean I can't have you doing plank push-ups, Valdez!” 

Jason cleared his throat. “Coach — Gleeson — urn, whatever you want us to call you. Y)u saved us at the Grand Canyon. \t>u were totally brave.” 

“Of course I was!” 

“The extraction team came and took us to Camp Half-Blood. We thought we’d lost you. Then we got word the storm spirits had taken you back to 
their — urn, operator, Medea.” 

“That witch! Wait — that’s impossible. She’s mortal. She’s dead." 

“Nfeah, well,” Leo said, “somehow she got not dead anymore.” 

Hedge nodded, his eyes narrowing. “So! Ntiuwere sent on a dangerous quest to rescue me. Excellent!” 

“Urn.” Piper got to her feet, holding out her hands so Coach Hedge wouldn't attack her. “Actually, Glee — can I still call you Coach Hedge? Gleeson 
seems wrong. We’re on a quest for something else. We kind of found you by accident.” 

“Oh.” The coach’s spirits seemed to deflate, but only for a second. Then his eyes lit up again. “But there are no accidents! Not on quests. This was 
meant to happen! So, this is the witch’s lair, eh? Why is everything gold?” 

“Gold?” Jason looked around. From the way Leo and Piper caught their breath, he guessed they hadn’t noticed yet either. 

The room was full of gold — the statues, the tea set Hedge had smashed, the chair that was definitely a throne. Even the curtains — which seemed to 
have opened by themselves at daybreak — appeared to be woven of gold fiber. 

“Nice,” Leo said. “No wonder they got so much security." 

“This isn’t — ” Piper stammered. “This isn’t Medea’s place, Coach. It’s some rich person’s mansion in Omaha. We got away from Medea and crash- 
landed here.” 

“It’s destiny, cupcakes!” Hedge insisted. “I’m meant to protect you. What’s the quest?” 

Before Jason could decide if he wanted to explain or just shove Coach Hedge back into his cage, a door opened at the far end of the room. 

A pudgy man in a white bathrobe stepped out with a golden toothbrush in his mouth. He had a white beard and one of those long, old-fashioned 
sleeping caps pressed down over his white hair. He froze when he saw them, and the toothbrush fell out of his mouth. 

He glanced into the room behind him and called, “Son? Lit, come out here, please. There are strange people in the throne room.” 

Coach Hedge did the obvious thing. He raised his club and shouted, “Die!” 




XXXII 



JASON 

It tookall three of them to hold back the satyr. “Whoa, Coach!” Jason said. “Bring it down a few notches.” A younger man charged into the room. Jason 
guessed he must be Lit, the old guy’s son. He was dressed in pajama pants with a sleeveless T-shirt that said cornhuskers, and he held a sword that 
looked like it could husk a lot of things besides corn. His ripped arms were covered in scars, and his face, framed by curly dark hair, would’ve been 
handsome if it wasn’t also sliced up. 

Lit immediately zeroed in on Jason like he was the biggest threat, and stalked toward him, swinging his sword overhead. “Hold on!" Piper stepped 
forward, trying for her best calming voice. “This is just a misunderstanding! Everything’s fine.” Lit stopped in his tracks, but he still looked wary. It didn’t 
help that Hedge was screaming, “I’ll get them! 

Don’t worry!” 

“Coach,” Jason pleaded, “they may be friendly. Besides, we're trespassing in their house.” 

“Thank you!” said the old man in the bathrobe. “Now, who are you, and why are you here?” 

“Let’s all put our weapons down,” Piper said. “Coach, you first.” 

Hedge clenched his jaw. “Just one thwack?” 

“No,” Piper said. 

“What about a compromise? I’ll kill them first, and if it turns out they were friendly, I’ll apologize.” 

“No!” Piper insisted. 

“Meh.” Coach Hedge lowered his club. 

Piper gave Lit a friendly sorry-about-that smile. Even with her hair messed up and wearing two-day-old clothes, she looked extremely cute, and 
Jason felt a little jealous she was giving Lit that smile. 

Lit huffed and sheathed his sword. “You speak well, girl — fortunately for your friends, or I would’ve run them through.” 

“Appreciate it,” Leo said. “I try not to get run through before lunchtime.” 

The old man in the bathrobe sighed, kicking the teapot that Coach Hedge had smashed. “Well, since you’re here. Please, sit down.” 

Lit frowned. “Your Majesty — ” 

“No, no, it’s fine, Lit,” the old man said. “New land, new customs. They may sit in my presence. After all, they’ve seen me in my nightclothes. No sense 
observing formalities.” He did his best to smile, though it looked a little forced. “Welcome to my humble home. I am King Midas.” 

“Midas? Impossible,” said Coach Hedge. “He died.” 

They were sitting on the sofas now, while the king reclined on his throne. Tricky to do that in a bathrobe, and Jason kept worrying the old guy would 
forget and uncross his legs. Hopefully he was wearing golden boxers under there. 

Lit stood behind the throne, both hands on his sword, glancing at Piper and flexing his muscular arms just to be annoying. Jason wondered if he 
looked that ripped holding a sword. Sadly, he doubted it. 

Piper sat forward. “What our satyr friend means, "four Majesty, is that you’re the second mortal we’ve met who should be — sorry — dead. King Midas 
lived thousands of years ago.” 

“Interesting.” The king gazed out the windows at the brilliant blue skies and the winter sunlight. In the distance, downtown Omaha looked like a cluster 
of children’s blocks — way too clean and small for a regular city. 

“\fc>u know,” the king said, “I think I was a bit dead for a while. It’s strange. Seems like a dream, doesn’t it, Lit?” 

“A very long dream, Your Majesty.” 

“And yet, now we’re here. I’m enjoying myself very much. I like being alive better.” 

“But how?” Piper asked. “\bu didn’t happen to have a ... patron?" 

Midas hesitated, but there was a sly twinkle in his eyes. “Does it matter, my dear?” 

“We could kill them again,” Hedge suggested. 

“Coach, not helping,” Jason said. “Why don’t you go outside and stand guard?” 

Leo coughed. “Is that safe? They’ve got some serious security.” 

“Oh, yes,” the king said. “Sorry about that. But it’s lovely stuff, isn’t it? Amazing what gold can still buy. Such excellent toys you have in this country!” 

He fished a remote control out of his bathrobe pocket and pressed a few buttons — a pass code, Jason guessed. 

“There,” Midas said. “Safe to go out now.” 

Coach Hedge grunted. “Fine. But if you need me ...” He winked at Jason meaningfully. Then he pointed at himself, pointed two fingers at their hosts, 
and sliced a finger across his throat. Very subtle sign language. 

“>feah, thanks,” Jason said. 

After the satyr left, Piper tried another diplomatic smile. “So ... you don’t know how you got here?” 

“Oh, well, yes. Sort of,” the king said. He frowned at Lit. “Why did we pick Omaha, again? I know it wasn’t the weather.” 

“The oracle,” Lit said. 

“>fes! I was told there was an oracle in Omaha.” The king shrugged. “Apparently I was mistaken. But this is a rather nice house, isn’t it? Lit— it’s short 
for Lityerses, by the way — horrible name, but his mother insisted — Lit has plenty of wide-open space to practice his swordplay. He has quite a reputation 
for that. They called him the Reaper of Men back in the old days.” 

“Oh.” Piper tried to sound enthusiastic. “How nice.” 

Lit’s smile was more of a cruel sneer. Jason was now one hundred percent sure he didn’t like this guy, and he was starting to regret sending Hedge 
outside. 

“So,” Jason said. “All this gold — ” 

The king’s eyes lit up. “Are you here for gold, my boy? Please, take a brochure!” 

Jason looked at the brochures on the coffee table. The title said GOLD: Invest for Eternity. “Urn, you sell gold?” 

“No, no,” the king said. “I make it. In uncertain times like these, gold is the wisest investment, don’t you think? Governments fall. The dead rise. Giants 
attack Olympus. But gold retains its value!” 



Leo frowned. “I’ve seen that commercial.” 

“Oh, don’t be fooled by cheap imitators!” the king said. “I assure you, I can beat any price fora serious investor. I can make a wide assortment of gold 
items at a moment’s notice.” 

“But ...” Piper shook her head in confusion. “>bur Majesty, you gave up the golden touch, didn’t you?” 

The king looked astonished. “Gave it up?” 

“Nfes,” Piper said. “>bu got it from some god — ’’ 

“Dionysus,” the king agreed. “I’d rescued one of his satyrs, and in return, the god granted me one wish. I chose the golden touch.” 

“But you accidentally turned your own daughter to gold,” Piper remembered. “And you realized how greedy you’d been. So you repented.” 

“Repented!” King Midas looked at Lit incredulously. “>bu see, son? You’re away for a few thousand years, and the story gets twisted all around. My 
dear girl, did those stories ever say I’d lost my magic touch?” 

“Well, I guess not. They just said you learned how to reverse it with running water, and you brought your daughter back to life.” 

“That’s all true. Sometimes I still have to reverse my touch. There’s no running water in the house because I don’t want accidents” — he gestured to his 
statues — “but we chose to live next to a river just in case. Occasionally, I'll forget and pat Lit on the back — ” 

Lit retreated a few steps. “I hate that.” 

“I told you I was sorry, son. At any rate, gold is wonderful. Why would I give it up?” 

“Well ...” Piper looked truly lost now. “Isn’t that the point of the story? That you learned your lesson?” 

Midas laughed. “My dear, may I see your backpack for a moment? Toss it here.” 

Piper hesitated, but she wasn’t eager to offend the king. She dumped everything out of the pack and tossed it to Midas. As soon as he caught it, the 
pack turned to gold, like frost spreading across the fabric. It still looked flexible and soft, but definitely gold. The king tossed it back. 

“As you see, I can still turn anything to gold,” Midas said. “That pack is magic now, as well. Go ahead — put your little storm spirit enemies in there.” 
“Seriously?” Leo was suddenly interested. He took the bag from Piper and held it up to the cage. As soon as he unzipped the backpack, the winds 
stirred and howled in protest. The cage bars shuddered. The door of the prison flew open and the winds got vacuumed straight into the pack. Leo zipped 
it shut and grinned. “Gotta admit. That’s cool.” 

“Nt>u see?” Midas said. “My golden touch a curse ? Please. I didn’t learn any lesson, and life isn't a story, girl. Honestly, my daughter Zoe was much 
more pleasant as a gold statue.” 

“She talked a lot,” Lit offered. 

“Exactly! And so I turned her back to gold.” Midas pointed. There in the corner was a golden statue of a girl with a shocked expression, as if she were 
thinking, Dad! 

“That’s horrible!” Piper said. 

“Nonsense. She doesn't mind. Besides, if I’d learned my lesson, would I have gotten these?” 

Midas pulled off his oversize sleeping cap, and Jason didn't know whether to laugh or get sick. Midas had long fuzzy gray ears sticking up from his 
white hair — like Bugs Bunny’s, but they weren’t rabbit ears. They were donkey ears. 

“Oh, wow,” Leo said. “I didn’t need to see that.” 

“Terrible, isn’t it?” Midas sighed. “A few years after the golden touch incident, I judged a music contest between Apollo and Pan, and I declared Pan 
the winner. Apollo, sore loser, said I must have the ears of an ass, and voila. This was my reward for being truthful. I tried to keep them a secret. Only my 
barber knew, but he couldn’t help blabbing.” Midas pointed out another golden statue — a bald man in a toga, holding a pair of shears. “That’s him. He 
won’t be telling anyone’s secrets again.” 

The king smiled. Suddenly he didn't strike Jason as a harmless old man in a bathrobe. His eyes had a merry glow to them — the look of a madman 
who knew he was mad, accepted his madness, and enjoyed it. “Yes, gold has many uses. I think that must be why I was brought back, eh Lit? To bankroll 
our patron.” 

Lit nodded. “That and my good sword arm.” 

Jason glanced at his friends. Suddenly the air in the room seemed much colder. 

“So you do have a patron,” Jason said. “\bu work for the giants.” 

King Midas waved his hand dismissively. “Well, I don’t care for giants myself, of course. But even supernatural armies need to get paid. I do owe my 
patron a great debt. I tried to explain that to the last group that came through, but they were very unfriendly. Wouldn’t cooperate at all." 

Jason slipped his hand into his pocket and grabbed his gold coin. “The last group?” 

“Hunters,” Lit snarled. “Blasted girls from Artemis.” 

Jason felt a spark of electricity — a literal spark — travel down his spine. He caught a whiff of electrical fire like he’d just melted some of the springs in 
the sofa. 

His sister had been here. 

“When?” he demanded. “What happened?” 

Lit shrugged. “Few days ago? I didn't get to kill them, unfortunately. They were looking for some evil wolves, or something. Said they were following a 
trail, heading west. Missing demigod — I don’t recall.” 

Percy Jackson, Jason thought. Annabeth had mentioned the Hunters were looking for him. And in Jason’s dream of the burned-out house in the 
redwoods, he’d heard enemy wolves baying. Hera had called them her keepers. It had to be connected somehow. 

Midas scratched his donkey ears. “Very unpleasant young ladies, those Hunters," he recalled. “They absolutely refused to be turned into gold. Much 
of the security system outside I installed to keep that sort of thing from happening again, you know. I don’t have time for those who aren’t serious 
investors.” 

Jason stood warily and glanced at his friends. They got the message. 

“Well,” Piper said, managing a smile. “It’s been a great visit. Welcome back to life. Thanks for the gold bag.” 

“Oh, but you can’t leave!” Midas said. “I know you’re not serious investors, but that’s all right! I have to rebuild my collection.” 

Lit was smiling cruelly. The king rose, and Leo and Piper moved awayfrom him. 

“Don’t worry,” the king assured them. “\bu don’t have to be turned to gold. I give all my guests a choice — join my collection, or die at the hands of 
Lityerses. Really, it’s good either way.” 

Piper tried to use her charmspeak. “Nt>ur Majesty, you can’t — ” 

Quicker than any old man should’ve been able to move, Midas lashed out and grabbed her wrist. 

“No!” Jason yelled. 

But a frost of gold spread over Piper, and in a heartbeat she was a glittering statue. Leo tried to summon fire, but he’d forgotten his power wasn’t 
working. Midas touched his hand, and Leo transformed into solid metal. 

Jason was so horrified he couldn’t move. His friends — just gone. And he hadn’t been able to stop it. 

Midas smiled apologetically. “Gold trumps fire, I’m afraid.” He waved around him at all the gold curtains and furniture. “In this room, my power 




dampens all others: fire... even charmspeak. Which leaves me only one more trophy to collect.” 

“Hedge!” Jason yelled. “Need help in here!” 

For once, the satyr didn’t charge in. Jason wondered if the lasers had gotten him, or if he was sitting at the bottom of a trap pit. 

Midas chuckled. “No goat to the rescue? Sad. But don’t worry, my boy. It’s really not painful. Lit can tell you.” 

Jason fixed on an idea. “I choose combat. Nt>u said I could choose to fight Lit instead." 

Midas looked mildly disappointed, but he shrugged. “I said you could die fighting Lit. But of course, if you wish.” 

The king backed away, and Lit raised his sword. 

“I’m going to enjoy this,” Lit said. “I am the Reaper of Men!” 

“Come on, Cornhusker.” Jason summoned his own weapon. This time it came up as a javelin, and Jason was glad for the extra length. 

“Oh, gold weapon!” Midas said. “Very nice.” 

Lit charged. 

The guy was fast. He slashed and sliced, and Jason could barely dodge the strikes, but his mind went into a different mode — analyzing patterns, 
learning Lit’s style, which was all offense, no defense. 

Jason countered, sidestepped, and blocked. Lit seemed surprised to find him still alive. 

“What is that style?” Lit growled. “Nt>u don’t fight like a Greek.” 

“Legion training,” Jason said, though he wasn’t sure how he knew that. “It’s Roman.” 

“Roman?” Lit struck again, and Jason deflected his blade. “What is Roman?” 

“News flash,” Jason said. “While you were dead, Rome defeated Greece. Created the greatest empire of all time.” 

“Impossible,” Lit said. “Never even heard of them.” 

Jason spun on one heel, smacked Lit in the chest with the butt of his javelin, and sent him toppling into Midas’s throne. 

“Oh, dear,” Midas said. “Lit?” 

“I’m fine," Lit growled. 

“Ntiu’d better help him up,” Jason said. 

Lit cried, “Dad, no!” 

Too late. Midas put his hand on his son’s shoulder, and suddenly a very angry-looking gold statue was sitting on Midas’s throne. 

“Curses!” Midas wailed. “That was a naughty trick, demigod. I'll get you for that.” He patted Lit’s golden shoulder. “Don’t worry, son. I'll get you down to 
the river right after I collect this prize.” 

Midas raced forward. Jason dodged, but the old man was fast, too. Jason kicked the coffee table into the old man’s legs and knocked him over, but 
Midas wouldn’t stay down for long. 

Then Jason glanced at Piper’s golden statue. Anger washed over him. He was the son of Zeus. He could not fail his friends. 

He felt a tugging sensation in his gut, and the air pressure dropped so rapidly that his ears popped. Midas must’ve felt it too, because he stumbled to 
his feet and grabbed his donkey ears. 

“Ow! What are you doing?” he demanded. “My power is supreme here!” 

Thunder rumbled. Outside, the sky turned black. 

“Nt>u know another good use for gold?" Jason said. 

Midas raised his eyebrows, suddenly excited. “Yes?” 

“It’s an excellent conductor of electricity.” 

Jason raised his javelin, and the ceiling exploded. A lightning bolt ripped through the roof like it was an eggshell, connected with the tip of Jason’s 
spear, and sent out arcs of energy that blasted the sofas to shreds. Chunks of ceiling plaster crashed down. The chandelier groaned and snapped offits 
chain, and Midas screamed as it pinned him to the floor. The glass immediately turned into gold. 

When the rumbling stopped, freezing rain poured into the building. Midas cursed in Ancient Greek, thoroughly pinned under his chandelier. The rain 
soaked everything, turning the gold chandelier back to glass. Piper and Leo were slowly changing too, along with the other statues in the room. 

Then the front door burst open, and Coach Hedge charged in, club ready. His mouth was covered with dirt, snow, and grass. 

“What’d I miss?” he asked. 

“Where were you?” Jason demanded. His head was spinning from summoning the lightning bolt, and it was all he could do to keep from passing out. 
“I was screaming for help.” 

Hedge belched. “Getting a snack. Sorry. Who needs killing?” 

“No one, now!” Jason said. “Just grab Leo. I’ll get Piper.” 

“Don’t leave me like this!” Midas wailed. 

All around him the statues of his victims were turning to flesh — his daughter, his barber, and a whole lot of angry-looking guys with swords. 

Jason grabbed Piper’s golden bag and his own supplies. 

Then he threw a rug over the golden statue of Lit on the throne. Hopefully that would keep the Reaper of Men from turning back to flesh — at least until 
after Midas’s victims did. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Jason told Hedge. “I think these guys will want some quality time with Midas." 




XXXII 



PIPER 



Piper woke up cold and shivering. 

She’d had the worst dream about an old guy with donkey ears chasing her around and shouting, You’re it! 

“Oh, god.” Her teeth chattered. “He turned me to gold!” 

“\t>u’re okay now.” Jason leaned over and tucked a warm blanket around her, but she still felt as cold as a Boread. 

She blinked, trying to figure out where they were. Next to her, a campfire blazed, turning the air sharp with smoke. Firelight flickered against rock 
walls. They were in a shallow cave, but it didn’t offer much protection. Outside, the wind howled. Snow blew sideways. It might’ve been day or night. The 
storm made it too dark to tell. 

“L-L-Leo?” Piper managed. 

“Present and un-gold-ified.” Leo was also wrapped in blankets. He didn’t look great, but better than Piper felt. “I got the precious metal treatment too,” 
he said. “But I came out of it faster. Dunno why. We had to dunk you in the river to get you back completely. Tried to dry you off, but . . . it’s really, really cold. 

“\t>u’ve got hypothermia,” Jason said. “We risked as much nectar as we could. Coach Hedge did a little nature magic — ” 

“Sports medicine.” The coach’s ugly face loomed over her. “Kind of a hobby of mine. Your breath might smell like wild mushrooms and Gatorade for a 
few days, but it’ll pass. \bu probably won’t die. Probably.” 

“Thanks,” Piper said weakly. “How did you beat Midas?” 

Jason told her the story, putting most of it down to luck. 

The coach snorted. “Kid’s being modest. \bu should’ve seen him. Hi-yah! Slice! Boom with the lightning!” 

“Coach, you didn’t even see it,” Jason said. “>fou were outside eating the lawn.” 

But the satyr was just warming up. “Then I came in with my club, and we dominated that room. Afterward, I told him, ‘Kid, I’m proud of you! If you could 
just work on your upper body strength — ’” 

“Coach,” said Jason. 

“Yeah?” 

“Shut up, please.” 

“Sure.” The coach sat down at the fire and started chewing his cudgel. 

Jason put his hand on Piper’s forehead and checked her temperature. “Leo, can you stoke the fire?” 

“On it.” Leo summoned a baseball-sized clump of flames and lobbed it into the campfire. 

“Do I look that bad?” Piper shivered. 

“Nah,” Jason said. 

“>bu’re a terrible liar,” she said. “Where are we?” 

“Pikes Peak,” Jason said. “Colorado.” 

“But that’s, what — five hundred miles from Omaha?” 

“Something like that,” Jason agreed. “I harnessed the storm spirits to bring us this far. They didn’t like it — went a little faster than I wanted, almost 
crashed us into the mountainside before I could get them back in the bag. I’m not going to be trying that again.” 

“Why are we here?” 

Leo sniffed. “That’s what / asked him.” 

Jason gazed into the storm as if watching for something. “That glittery wind trail we saw yesterday? It was still in the sky, though it had faded a lot. I 
followed it until I couldn’t see it anymore. Then — honestly I’m not sure. I just felt like this was the right place to stop.” 

“’Course it is." Coach Hedge spit out some cudgel splinters. “Aeolus’s floating palace should be anchored above us, right at the peak. This is one of 
his favorite spots to dock.” 

“Maybe that was it.” Jason knit his eyebrows. “I don’t know. Something else, too ...” 

“The Hunters were heading west,” Piper remembered. “Do you think they’re around here?” 

Jason rubbed his forearm as if the tattoos were bothering him. “I don’t see how anyone could survive on the mountain right now. The storm’s pretty 
bad. It’s already the evening before the solstice, but we didn’t have much choice except to wait out the storm here. We had to give you some time to rest 
before we tried moving.” 

He didn’t need to convince her. The wind howling outside the cave scared her, and she couldn’t stop shivering. 

“We have to get you warm.” Jason sat next to her and held out his arms a little awkwardly. “Uh, you mind if I . . .” 

“I suppose." She tried to sound nonchalant. 

He put his arms around her and held her. They scooted closer to the fire. Coach Hedge chewed on his club and spit splinters into the fire. 

Leo broke out some cooking supplies and started frying burger patties on an iron skillet. “So, guys, long as you’re cuddled up for story time ... 
something I’ve been meaning to tell you. On the way to Omaha, I had this dream. Kinda hard to understand with the static and the Wheel of Fortune 
breaking in — ” 

“Wheel of Fortune?” Piper assumed Leo was kidding, but when he looked up from his burgers, his expression was deadly serious. 

“The thing is,” he said, “my dad Hephaestus talked to me.” 

Leo told them about his dream. In the firelight, with the wind howling, the story was even creepier. Piper could imagine the static-filled voice of the 
god warning about giants who were the sons of Tartarus, and about Leo losing some friends along the way. 

She tried to concentrate on something good: Jason’s arms around her, the warmth slowly spreading into her body, but she was terrified. “I don’t 
understand. If demigods and gods have to work together to kill the giants, why would the gods stay silent? If they need us — ” 

“Ha,” said Coach Hedge. “The gods hate needing humans. They like to be needed by humans, but not the other way around. Things will have to get a 
whole lot worse before Zeus admits he made a mistake closing Olympus.” 

“Coach,” Piper said, “that was almost an intelligent comment.” 

Hedge huffed. “What? I’m intelligent! I’m not surprised you cupcakes haven’t heard of the Giant War. The gods don’t like to talk about it. Bad PR to 



admit you needed mortals to help beat an enemy. That’s just embarrassing.” 

“There’s more, though,” Jason said. “When I dreamed about Hera in her cage, she said Zeus was acting unusually paranoid. And Hera — she said 
she went to those ruins because a voice had been speaking in her head. What if someone’s influencing the gods, like Medea influenced us?” 

Piper shuddered. She’d had a similar thought — that some force they couldn’t see was manipulating things behind the scenes, helping the giants. 
Maybe the same force was keeping Enceladus informed about their movements, and had even knocked their dragon out of the sky over Detroit. Perhaps 
Leo’s sleeping Dirt Woman, or another servant of hers ... 

Leo set hamburger buns on the skillet to toast. “Yeah, Hephaestus said something similar, like Zeus was acting weirder than usual. But what bothered 
me was the stuff my dad didn’t say. Like a couple of times he was talking about the demigods, and how he had so many kids and all. I don’t know. He 
acted like getting the greatest demigods together was going to be almost impossible — like Hera was trying, but it was a really stupid thing to do, and 
there was some secret Hephaestus wasn’t supposed to tell me.” 

Jason shifted. Piper could feel the tension in his arms. 

“Chiron was the same way back at camp,” he said. “He mentioned a sacred oath not to discuss — something. Coach, you know anything about that?” 
“Nah. I’m just a satyr. They don’t tell us the juicy stuff. Especially an old — ” He stopped himself. 

“An old guy like you?” Piper asked. “But you’re not that old, are you?” 

“Hundred and six,” the coach muttered. 

Leo coughed. “Say what?” 

“Don’t catch your panties on fire, Valdez. That’s just fifty-three in human years. Still, yeah, I made some enemies on the Council of Cloven Elders. I’ve 
been a protector a longtime. But they started saying I was getting unpredictable. Too violent. Can you imagine?” 

“Wow.” Piper tried not to look at her friends. “That’s hard to believe.” 

Coach scowled. “Nfeah, then finally we get a good war going with the Titans, and do they put me on the front lines? No! They send me as far away as 
possible — the Canadian frontier, can you believe it? Then after the war, they put me out to pasture. The Wilderness School. Bah! Like I’m too old to be 
helpful just because I like playing offense. All those flower-pickers on the Council — talking about nature.” 

“I thought satyrs liked nature,” Piper ventured. 

“Shoot, I love nature,” Hedge said. “Nature means big things killing and eating little things! And when you’re a — you know — vertically challenged satyr 
like me, you get in good shape, you carry a big stick, and you don’t take nothing from no one! That’s nature.” Hedge snorted indignantly. “Flower-pickers. 
Anyway, I hope you got something vegetarian cooking, Valdez. I don’t do flesh." 

“Tfeah, Coach. Don’t eat your cudgel. I got some tofu patties here. Piper’s a vegetarian too. I’ll throw them on in a second.” 

The smell of frying burgers filled the air. Piper usually hated the smell of cooking meat, but her stomach rumbled like it wanted to mutiny. 

I’m losing it, she thought. Think broccoli. Carrots. Lentils. 

Her stomach wasn't the only thing rebelling. Lying by the fire, with Jason holding her, Piper’s conscience felt like a hot bullet slowing working its way 
toward her heart. All the guilt she’d been holding in for the last week, since the giant Enceladus had first sent her a dream, was about to kill her. 

Her friends wanted to help her. Jason even said he’d walk into a trap to save her dad. And Piper had shut them out. 

For all she knew, she’d already doomed her father when she attacked Medea. 

She choked back a sob. Maybe she’d done the right thing in Chicago by saving her friends, but she’d only delayed her problem. She could never 
betray her friends, but the tiniest part of her was desperate enough to think, What if I did? 

She tried to imagine what her dad would say. Hey, Dad, if you were ever chained up by a cannibal giant and I had to betray a couple of friends to 
save you, what should I do? 

Funny, that had never come up when they did Any Three Questions. Her dad would never take the question seriously, of course. He’d probably tell her 
one of Grandpa Tom’s old stories — something with glowing hedgehogs and talking birds — and then laugh about it as if the advice was silly. 

Piper wished she remembered her grandpa better. Sometimes she dreamed about that little two-room house in Oklahoma. She wondered what it 
would’ve been like to grow up there. 

Her dad would think that was nuts. He’d had spent his whole life running awayfrom that place, distancing himself from the rez, playing any role except 
Native American. He'd always told Piper how lucky she was to grow up rich and well cared-for, in a nice house in California. 

She’d learned to be vaguely uncomfortable about her ancestry — like Dad’s old pictures from the eighties, when he had feathered hair and crazy 
clothes. Can you believe I ever looked like that? he’d say. Being Cherokee was the same way for him — something funny and mildly embarrassing. 

But what else were they? Dad didn’t seem to know. Maybe that’s why he was always so unhappy, changing roles. Maybe that’s why Piper started 
stealing things, looking for something her dad couldn’t give her. 

Leo put tofu patties on the skillet. The wind kept raging. Piper thought of an old story her dad had told her ... one that maybe did answer some of her 
questions. 

One day in second grade she’d come home in tears and demanded why her father had named her Piper. The kids were making fun of her because Piper 
Cherokee was a kind of airplane. 

Her dad laughed, as if that had never occurred to him. “No, Pipes. Fine airplane. That’s not how I named you. Grandpa Tom picked out your name. 
First time he heard you cry, he said you had a powerful voice — better than any reed flute piper. He said you’d learn to sing the hardest Cherokee songs, 
even the snake song.” 

“The snake song?” 

Dad told her the legend — how one day a Cherokee woman had seen a snake playing too near her children and killed it with a rock, not realizing it 
was the king of rattlesnakes. The snakes prepared for war on the humans, but the woman's husband tried to make peace. He promised he’d do anything 
to repay the rattlesnakes. The snakes held him to his word. They told him to send his wife to the well so the snakes could bite her and take her life in 
exchange. The man was heartbroken, but he did what they asked. Afterward, the snakes were impressed that the man had given up so much and kept his 
promise. They taught him the snake song for all the Cherokee to use. From that point on, if any Cherokee met a snake and sang that song, the snake 
would recognize the Cherokee as a friend, and would not bite. 

“That’s awful!” Piper had said. “He let his wife die?” 

Her dad spread his hands. “It was a hard sacrifice. But one life brought generations of peace between snakes and Cherokee. Grandpa Tom believed 
that Cherokee music could solve almost any problem. He thought you’d know lots of songs, and be the greatest musician of the family. That's why we 
named you Piper.” 

A hard sacrifice. Had her grandfather foreseen something about her, even when she was a baby? Had he sensed she was a child of Aphrodite? Her 
dad would probably tell her that was crazy. Grandpa Tom was no oracle. 

But still ... she’d made a promise to help on this quest. Her friends were counting on her. They’d saved her when Midas had turned her to gold. 
They’d brought her back to life. She couldn’t repay them with lies. 




Gradually, she started to feel warmer. She stopped shivering and settled against Jason’s chest. Leo handed out the food. Piper didn’t want to move, talk, 
or do anything to disrupt the moment. But she had to. 

“We need to talk.” She sat up so she could face Jason. “I don’t want to hide anything from you guys anymore." 

They looked at her with their mouths full of burger. Too late to change her mind now. 

“Three nights before the Grand Canyon trip,” she said, “I had a dream vision — a giant, telling me my father had been taken hostage. He told me I had 
to cooperate, or my dad would be killed.” 

The flames crackled. 

Finally Jason said, “Enceladus? Tfciu mentioned that name before." 

Coach Hedge whistled. “Big giant. Breathes fire. Not somebody I’d want barbecuing my daddy goat.” 

Jason gave him a shut up look. “Piper, go on. What happened next?” 

“I — I tried to reach my dad, but all I got was his personal assistant, and she told me not to worry.” 

“Jane?” Leo remembered. “Didn’t Medea say something about controlling her?” 

Piper nodded. “To get my dad back, I had to sabotage this quest. I didn't realize it would be the three of us. Then after we started the quest, 
Enceladus sent me another warning: He told me he wanted you two dead. He wants me to lead you to a mountain. I don’t know exactly which one, but it’s 
in the Bay Area — I could see the Golden Gate Bridge from the summit. I have to be there by noon on the solstice, tomorrow. An exchange.” 

She couldn’t meet her friends’ eyes. She waited for them to yell at her, or turn their backs, or kick her out into the snowstorm. 

Instead, Jason scooted next to her and put his arm around her again. “God, Piper. I’m so sorry.” 

Leo nodded. “No kidding. Tbu’ve been carrying this around for a week? Piper, we could help you.” 

She glared at them. “Why don’t you yell at me or something? I was ordered to kill you!” 

“Aw, come on,” Jason said. “Tbu’ve saved us both on this quest. I’d put my life in your hands any day.” 

“Same,” Leo said. “Can I have a hug too?” 

“Nt>u don’t get it!” Piper said. “I’ve probably just killed my dad, telling you this.” 

“I doubt it.” Coach Hedge belched. He was eating his tofu burger folded inside the paper plate, chewing it all like a taco. “Giant hasn't gotten what he 
wants yet, so he still needs your dad for leverage. He’ll wait until the deadline passes, see if you show up. He wants you to divert the quest to this 
mountain, right?” 

Piper nodded uncertainly. 

“So that means Hera is being kept somewhere else,” Hedge reasoned. “And she has to be saved by the same day. So you have to choose — rescue 
your dad, or rescue Hera. If you go after Hera, then Enceladus takes care of your dad. Besides, Enceladus would never let you go even if you cooperated, 
"vbu’re obviously one ofthe seven inthe Great Prophecy.” 

One ofthe seven. She’d talked about this before with Jason and Leo, and she supposed it must be true, but she still had trouble believing it. She 
didn’t feel that important. She was just a stupid child of Aphrodite. How could she be worth deceiving and killing? 

“So we have no choice,” she said miserably. “We have to save Hera, or the giant king gets unleashed. That’s our quest. The world depends on it. And 
Enceladus seems to have ways of watching me. He isn’t stupid. He’ll know if we change course and go the wrong way. He’ll kill my dad.” 

“He’s not going to kill your dad,” Leo said. “We’ll save him.” 

“We don’t have time!” Piper cried. “Besides, it’s a trap.” 

“We’re your friends, beauty queen,” Leo said. “We’re not going to let your dad die. We just gotta figure out a plan.” 

Coach Hedge grumbled. “Would help if we knew where this mountain was. Maybe Aeolus can tell you that. The Bay Area has a bad reputation for 
demigods. Old home ofthe Titans, Mount Othrys, sits over Mount Tam, where Atlas holds up the sky. I hope that’s not the mountain you saw.” 

Piper tried to remember the vista in her dreams. “I don’t think so. This was inland.” 

Jason frowned at the fire, like he was trying to remember something. 

“Bad reputation ... that doesn’t seem right. The Bay Area ...” 

“Nt>u think you’ve been there?” Piper asked. 

“I ...” He looked like he was almost on the edge of a breakthrough. Then the anguish came back into his eyes. “I don’t know. Hedge, what happened 
to Mount Othrys?” 

Hedge took another bite of paper and burger. “Well, Kronos built a new palace there last summer. Big nasty place, was going to be the headquarters 
for his new kingdom and all. Weren’t any battles there, though. Kronos marched on Manhattan, tried to take Olympus. If I remember right, he left some 
other Titans in charge of his palace, but after Kronos got defeated in Manhattan, the whole palace just crumbled on its own.” 

“No,” Jason said. 

Everyone looked at him. 

“What do you mean, ‘No’?” Leo asked. 

“That’s not what happened. I — ” He tensed, looking toward the cave entrance. “Did you hear that?” 

Fora second, nothing. Then Piper heard it: howls piercing the night. 




XXXIV 



PIPER 



“Wolves,” Piper said. “They sound close” 

Jason rose and summoned his sword. Leo and Coach Hedge got to their feet too. Piper tried, but black spots danced before her eyes. 

“Stay there,” Jason told her. “We’ll protect you.” 

She gritted her teeth. She hated feeling helpless. She didn’t mnt anyone to protect her. First the stupid ankle. Now stupid hypothermia. She wanted 
to be on her feet, with her dagger in her hand. 

Then, just outside the firelight at the entrance of the cave, she saw a pair of red eyes glowing in dark. 

Okay, she thought. Maybe a little protection is fine. 

More wolves edged into the firelight — black beasts bigger than Great Danes, with ice and snow caked on their fur. Their fangs gleamed, and their 
glowing red eyes looked disturbingly intelligent. The wolf in front was almost as tall as a horse, his mouth stained as if he’d just made a fresh kill. 

Piper pulled her dagger out of its sheath. 

Then Jason stepped forward and said something in Latin. 

Piper didn’t think a dead language would have much effect on wild animals, but the alpha wolf curled his lip. The fur stood up along his spine. One of 
his lieutenants tried to advance, but the alpha wolf snapped at his ear. Then all of the wolves backed into the dark. 

“Dude, I gotta study Latin.” Leo’s hammer shook in his hand. “What’d you say, Jason?” 

Hedge cursed. “Whatever it was, it wasn’t enough. Look.” 

The wolves were coming back, but the alpha wolf wasn’t with them. They didn’t attack. They waited — at least a dozen now, in a rough semicircle just 
outside the firelight, blocking the cave exit. 

The coach hefted his club. “Here’s the plan. I’ll kill them all, and you guys escape.” 

“Coach, they’ll rip you apart,” Piper said. 

“Nah, I’m good.” 

Then Piper saw the silhouette of a man coming through the storm, wading through the wolf pack. 

“Stick together,” Jason said. “They respect a pack. And Hedge, no crazy stuff. We’re not leaving you or anyone else behind.” 

Piper got a lump in her throat. She was the weak link in their “pack” right now. No doubt the wolves could smell her fear. She might as well be wearing 
a sign that said free lunch. 

The wolves parted, and the man stepped into the firelight. His hair was greasy and ragged, the color of fireplace soot, topped with a crown of what 
looked like finger bones. His robes were tattered fur — wolf, rabbit, raccoon, deer, and several others Piper couldn’t identify. The furs didn’t look cured, and 
from the smell, they weren’t very fresh. His frame was lithe and muscular, like a distance runner’s. But the most horrible thing was his face. His thin pale 
skin was pulled tight over his skull. His teeth were sharpened like fangs. His eyes glowed bright red like his wolves' — and they fixed on Jason with 
absolute hatred. 

“Ecce,”he said, “filli Romani.” 

“Speak English, wolf man!” Hedge bellowed. 

The wolf man snarled. “Tell your faun to mind his tongue, son of Rome. Or he’ll be my first snack.” 

Piper remembered that faun was the Roman name for satyr . Not exactly helpful information. Now, if she could remember who this wolf guy was in 
Greek mythology, and howto defeat him, that she could use. 

The wolf man studied their little group. His nostrils twitched. “So it’s true,” he mused. “A child of Aphrodite. A son of Hephaestus. A faun. And a child of 
Rome, of Lord Jupiter, no less. All together, without killing each other. How interesting." 

“>bu were told about us?” Jason asked. “By whom?" 

The man snarled — perhaps a laugh, perhaps a challenge. “Oh, we’ve been patrolling for you all across the west, demigod, hoping we’d be the first to 
find you. The giant king will reward me well when he rises. I am Lycaon, king of the wolves. And my pack is hungry.” 

The wolves snarled in the darkness. 

Out of the corner of her eye, Piper saw Leo put up his hammer and slip something else from his tool belt — a glass bottle full of clear liquid. 

Piper racked her brain trying to place the wolf guy’s name. She knew she’d heard it before, but she couldn’t remember details. 

Lycaon glared at Jason’s sword. He moved to each side as if looking for an opening, but Jason’s blade moved with him. 

“Leave,” Jason ordered. “There’s no food for you here.” 

“Unless you want tofu burgers," Leo offered. 

Lycaon bared his fangs. Apparently he wasn’t a tofu fan. 

“If I had my way,” Lycaon said with regret, “I’d kill you first, son of Jupiter. Your father made me what I am. I was the powerful mortal king of Arcadia, 
with fifty fine sons, and Zeus slew them all with his lightning bolts.” 

“Ha,” Coach Hedge said. “For good reason!” 

Jason glanced over his shoulder. “Coach, you know this clown?" 

“I do,” Piper answered. The details of the myth came back to her — a short, horrible story she and her father had laughed at over breakfast. She 
wasn’t laughing now. 

“Lycaon invited Zeus to dinner,” she said. “But the king wasn’t sure it was really Zeus. So to test his powers, Lycaon tried to feed him human flesh. 
Zeus got outraged — ” 

“And killed my sons!” Lycaon howled. The wolves behind him howled too. 

“So Zeus turned him into a wolf,” Piper said. “They call. . . they call werewolves lycanthropes, named after him, the first werewolf.” 

“The king of wolves,” Coach Hedge finished. “An immortal, smelly, vicious mutt.” 

Lycaon growled. “I will tear you apart, faun!” 

“Oh, you want some goat, buddy? ’Cause I’ll give you goat.” 

“Stop it,” Jason said. “Lycaon, you said you w&nted to kill me first, but...?” 

“Sadly, Child of Rome, you are spoken for. Since this one” — he waggled his claws at Piper — “has failed to kill you, you are to be delivered alive to the 



Wolf House. One of my compatriots has asked for the honor of killing you herself.” 

“Who?” Jason said. 

The wolf king snickered. “Oh, a great admirer of yours. Apparently, you made quite an impression on her. She will take care of you soon enough, and 
really I cannot complain. Spilling your blood at the Wolf House should mark my new territory quite well. Lupa will think twice about challenging my pack.” 
Piper’s heart tried to jump out of her chest. She didn’t understand everything Lycaon had said, but a woman who wanted to kill Jason? Medea, she 
thought. Somehow, she must’ve survived the explosion. 

Piper struggled to her feet. Spots danced before her eyes again. The cave seemed to spin. 

“Ntiu’re going to leave now,” Piper said, “before we destroy you.” 

She tried to put power into the words, but she was too weak. Shivering in her blankets, pale and sweaty and barely able to hold a knife, she couldn’t 
have looked very threatening. 

Lycaon’s red eyes crinkled with humor. “A brave try, girl. 

I admire that. Perhaps I'll make your end quick. Only the son of Jupiter is needed alive. The rest of you, I’m afraid, are dinner.” 

At that moment, Piper knew she was going to die. But at least she’d die on her feet, fighting next to Jason. 

Jason took a step forward. “You’re not killing anyone, wolf man. Not without going through me.” 

Lycaon howled and extended his claws. Jason slashed at him, but his golden sword passed straight through as if the wolf king wasn’t there. 

Lycaon laughed. “Gold, bronze, steel — none of these are any good against my wolves, son of Jupiter.” 

“Silver!” Piper cried. “Aren’t werewolves hurt by silver?” 

“We don’t have any silver!” Jason said. 

Wolves leaped into the firelight. Hedge charged forward with an elated “Woot!” 

But Leo struck first. He threw his glass bottle and it shattered on the ground, splattering liquid all over the wolves — the unmistakable smell of 
gasoline. He shota burst of fire at the puddle, and a wall of flames erupted. 

Wolves yelped and retreated. Several caught fire and had to run back into the snow. Even Lycaon looked uneasily at the barrier of flames now 
separating his wolves from the demigods. 

“Aw, c’mon,” Coach Hedge complained. “I can’t hit them if they’re way over there." 

Every time a wolf came closer, Leo shot a new wave of fire from his hands, but each effort seemed to make him a little more tired, and the gasoline 
was already dying down. “I can't summon any more gas!” Leo warned. Then his face turned red. “Wow, that came out wrong. I mean the burningkmd. 
Gonna take the tool belt a while to recharge. What you got, man?” 

“Nothing,” Jason said. “Not even a weapon that works.” 

“Lightning?” Piper asked. 

Jason concentrated, but nothing happened. “I think the snowstorm is interfering, or something.” 

“Unleash the venti !” Piper said. 

“Then we’ll have nothing to give Aeolus,” Jason said. “We’ll have come all this way for nothing.” 

Lycaon laughed. “I can smell your fear. A few more minutes of life, heroes. Pray to whatever gods you wish. Zeus did not grant me mercy, and you will 
have none from me.” 

The flames began to sputter out. Jason cursed and dropped his sword. He crouched like he was ready to go hand-to-hand. Leo pulled his hammer 
out of his pack. Piper raised her dagger — not much, but it was all she had. Coach Hedge hefted his club, and he was the only one who looked excited 
about dying. 

Then a ripping sound cut through the wind — like a piece of tearing cardboard. A long stick sprouted from the neck of the nearest wolf — the shaft of a 
silver arrow. The wolf writhed and fell, melting into a puddle of shadow. 

More arrows. More wolves fell. The pack broke in confusion. An arrow flashed toward Lycaon, but the wolf king caught it in midair. Then he yelled in 
pain. When he dropped the arrow, it left a charred, smoking gash across his palm. Another arrow caught him in the shoulder, and the wolf king staggered. 

“Curse them!” Lycaon yelled. He growled at his pack, and the wolves turned and ran. Lycaon fixed Jason with those glowing red eyes. “This isn’t over, 
boy.” 

The wolf king disappeared into the night. 

Seconds later, Piper heard more wolves baying, but the sound was different — less threatening, more like hunting dogs on the scent. A smaller white 
wolf burst into the cave, followed by two more. 

Hedge said, “Kill it?” 

“No!” Piper said. “Wait.” 

The wolves tilted their heads and studied the campers with huge golden eyes. 

A heartbeat later, their masters appeared: a troop of hunters in white-and-gray winter camouflage, at least half a dozen. All of them carried bows, with 
quivers of glowing silver arrows on their backs. 

Their faces were covered with parka hoods, but clearly they were all girls. One, a little taller than the rest, crouched in the firelight and snatched up the 
arrow that had wounded Lycaon’s hand. 

“So close.” She turned to her companions. “Phoebe, stay with me. Watch the entrance. The rest of you, follow Lycaon. We can’t lose him now. I’ll 
catch up with you.” 

The other hunters mumbled agreement and disappeared, heading after Lycaon’s pack. 

The girl in white turned toward them, her face still hidden in her parka hood. “We've been following that demon’s trail for over a week. Is everyone all 
right? No one got bit?” 

Jason stood frozen, staring at the girl. Piper realized something about her voice sounded familiar. It was hard to pin down, but the way she spoke, the 
way she formed her words, reminded her of Jason. 

“Ntiu’re her," Piper guessed. “\bu’re Thalia.” 

The girl tensed. Piper was afraid she might draw her bow, but instead she pulled down her parka hood. Her hair was spiky black, with a silver tiara 
across her brow. Her face had a super-healthy glow to it, as if she were a little more than human, and her eyes were brilliant blue. She was the girl from 
Jason's photograph. 

“Do I know you?” Thalia asked. 

Piper took a breath. “This might be a shock, but — ” 

“Thalia.” Jason stepped forward, his voice trembling. “I’m Jason, your brother.” 




XXXV 



LEO 



Leo figured he had the worst luck in the group, and that was saying a lot. Why didn’t he get to have the long-lost sister or the movie star dad who needed 
rescuing? All he got was a tool belt and a dragon that broke down halfway through the quest. Maybe it was the stupid curse of the Hephaestus cabin, but 
Leo didn’t think so. His life had been unlucky way before he got to camp. 

A thousand years from now, when this quest was being told around a campfire, he figured people would talk about brave Jason, beautiful Piper, and 
their sidekick Flaming Valdez, who accompanied them with a bag of magic screwdrivers and occasionally fixed tofu burgers. 

If that wasn’t bad enough, Leo fell in love with every girl he saw — as long as she was totally out of his league. 

When he first saw Thalia, Leo immediately thought she was way too pretty to be Jason’s sister. Then he thought he’d better not say that or he’d get in 
trouble. He liked her dark hair, her blue eyes, and her confident attitude. She looked like the kind of girl who could stomp anybody on the ball court or the 
battlefield, and wouldn’t give Leo the time of day — just Leo’s type! 

For a minute, Jason and Thalia faced each other, stunned. Then Thalia rushed forward and hugged him. 

“My gods! She told me you were dead!” She gripped Jason’s face and seemed to be examining everything about it. “Thank Artemis, it is you. That 
little scar on your lip — you tried to eat a stapler when you were two!” 

Leo laughed. “Seriously?” 

Hedge nodded like he approved of Jason’s taste. “Staplers — excellent source of iron.” 

“W-wait,” Jason stammered. “Who told you I was dead? What happened?” 

At the cave entrance, one of the white wolves barked. Thalia looked back at the wolf and nodded, but she kept her hands on Jason’s face, like she 
was afraid he might vanish. “My wolf is telling me I don’t have much time, and she’s right. But we have to talk. Let’s sit.” 

Piper did better than that. She collapsed. She would’ve cracked her head on the cave floor if Hedge hadn’t caught her. 

Thalia rushed over. “What’s wrong with her? Ah — never mind. I see. Hypothermia. Ankle.” She frowned at the satyr. “Don’t you know nature healing?” 
Hedge scoffed. “Why do you think she looks this good? Can’t you smell the Gatorade?" 

Thalia looked at Leo for the first time, and of course it was an accusatory glare, like Why did you let the goat be a doctor? As if that was Leo’s fault. 
“Nt>u and the satyr,” Thalia ordered, “take this girl to my friend at the entrance. Phoebe’s an excellent healer.” 

“It’s cold out there!” Hedge said. “I’ll freeze my horns off.” 

But Leo knew when they weren’t wanted. “Come on, Hedge. These two need time to talk.” 

“Humph. Fine,” the satyr muttered. “Didn’t even get to brain anybody.” 

Hedge carried Piper toward the entrance. Leo was about to follow when Jason called, “Actually, man, could you, urn, stick around?” 

Leo saw something in Jason’s eyes he didn’t expect: Jason was asking for support. He wanted somebody else there. He was scared. 

Leo grinned. “Sticking around is my specialty.” 

Thalia didn’t look too happy about it, but the three of them sat at the fire. For a few minutes, nobody spoke. Jason studied his sister like she was a 
scary device — one that might explode if handled incorrectly. Thalia seemed more at ease, as if she was used to stumbling across stranger things than 
long-lost relatives. But still she regarded Jason in a kind of amazed trance, maybe remembering a little two-year-old who tried to eat a stapler. Leo took a 
few pieces of copper wire out of his pockets and twisted them together. 

Finally he couldn’t stand the silence. “So ... the Hunters of Artemis. This whole ‘not dating’ thing — is that like always, or more of a seasonal thing, or 
what?” 

Thalia stared at him as if he’d just evolved from pond scum. Yeah, he was definitely liking this girl. 

Jason kicked him in the shin. “Don’t mind Leo. He's just trying to break the ice. But, Thalia ... what happened to our family? Who told you I was 
dead?” 

Thalia tugged at a silver bracelet on her wrist. In the firelight, in her winter camouflage, she almost looked like Khione the snow princess — just as cold 
and beautiful. 

“Do you remember anything?” she asked. 

Jason shook his head. “I woke up three days ago on a bus with Leo and Piper.” 

“Which wasn’t our fault,” Leo added hastily. “Hera stole his memories.” 

Thalia tensed. “Hera? How do you know that?” 

Jason explained about their quest — the prophecy at camp, Hera getting imprisoned, the giant taking Piper’s dad, and the winter solstice deadline. 
Leo chimed in to add the important stuff: how he’d fixed the bronze dragon, could throw fireballs, and made excellent tacos. 

Thalia was a good listener. Nothing seemed to surprise her — the monsters, the prophecies, the dead rising. But when Jason mentioned King Midas, 
she cursed in Ancient Greek. 

“I knew we should’ve burned down his mansion,” she said. “That man’s a menace. But we were so intent on following Lycaon — Well, I’m glad you got 
away. So Hera’s been ... what, hiding you all these years?” 

“I don’t know.” Jason brought out the photo from his pocket. “She left me just enough memory to recognize your face.” 

Thalia looked at the picture, and her expression softened. “I’d forgotten about that. I left it in Cabin One, didn’t I?” 

Jason nodded. “I think Hera wanted for us to meet. When we landed here, at this cave ... I had a feeling it was important. Like I knew you were close 
by. Is that crazy?” 

“Nah,” Leo assured him. “We were absolutely destined to meet your hot sister.” 

Thalia ignored him. Probably she just didn't want to let on how much Leo impressed her. 

“Jason,” she said, “when you’re dealing with the gods, nothing is too crazy. But you can’t trust Hera, especially since we’re children of Zeus. She 
hates all children of Zeus.” 

“But she said something about Zeus giving her my life as a peace offering. Does that make any sense?” 

The color drained from Thalia’s face. “Oh, gods. Mother wouldn’t have ... You don’t remember — No, of course you don’t.” 

“What?” Jason asked. 

Thalia’s features seemed to grow older in the firelight, like her immortality wasn’t working so well. “Jason ... I’m not sure how to say this. Our mom 



wasn’t exactly stable. She caught Zeus’s eye because she was a television actress, and she was beautiful, but she didn’t handle the fame well. She drank, 
pulled stupid stunts. She was always in the tabloids. She could never get enough attention. Even before you were born, she and I argued all the time. She 
. . . she knew Dad was Zeus, and I think that was too much for her to take. It was like the ultimate achievement for her to attract the lord of the sky, and she 
couldn’t accept it when he left. The thing about the gods... well, they don’t hang around.” 

Leo remembered his own mom, the way she’d assured him over and over that his dad would be back someday. But she’d never acted mad about it. 
She didn’t seem to want Hephaestus for herself — only so Leo could know his father. She’d dealt with working a dead-end job, living in a tiny apartment, 
never having enough money — and she’d seemed fine with it. As long as she had Leo, she always said, life would be okay. 

He watched Jason’s face — looking more and more devastated as Thalia described their mom — and for once, Leo didn’t feel jealous of his friend. 
Leo might have lost his mom. He might have had some hard times. But at least he remembered her. He found himself tapping out a Morse code 
message on his knee: Love you. He felt bad for Jason, not having memories like that — not having anything to fall back on. 

“So ...” Jason didn't seem able to finish the question. 

“Jason, you got friends,” Leo told him. “Now you got a sister. \bu’re not alone." 

Thalia offered her hand, and Jason took it. 

“When I was about seven,” she said, “Zeus started visiting Mom again. I think he felt bad about wrecking her life, and he seemed — different 
somehow. A little older and sterner, more fatherly toward me. For a while, Mom improved. She loved having Zeus around, bringing her presents, causing 
the sky to rumble. She always wanted more attention. That’s the year you were born. Mom . . . well, I never got along with her, but you gave me a reason to 
hang around. \bu were so cute. 

And I didn’t trust Mom to look after you. Of course, Zeus eventually stopped coming by again. He probably couldn’t stand Mom’s demands anymore, 
always pestering him to let her visit Olympus, or to make her immortal or eternally beautiful. When he left for good, Mom got more and more unstable. That 
was about the time the monsters started attacking me. Mom blamed Hera. She claimed the goddess was coming after you too — that Hera had barely 
tolerated my birth, but Mo demigod children from the same family was too big an insult. Mom even said she hadn’t wanted to name you Jason, but Zeus 
insisted, as a way to appease Hera because the goddess liked that name. I didn’t know what to believe.” 

Leo fiddled with his copper wires. He felt like an intruder. He shouldn’t be listening to this, but it also made him feel like he was getting to know Jason 
for the first time — like maybe being here now made up for those four months at Wilderness School, when Leo had just imagined they’d had a friendship. 
“How did you guys get separated?” he asked. 

Thalia squeezed her brother’s hand. “If I’d known you were alive . . . gods, things would’ve been so different. But when you were two, Mom packed us 
in the car for a family vacation. We drove up north, toward the wine country, to this park she wanted to show us. I remember thinking it was strange 
because Mom never took us anywhere, and she was acting super nervous. I was holding your hand, walking you toward this big building in the middle of 
the park, and ...” She took a shaky breath. “Mom told me to go back to the car and get the picnic basket. I didn't want to leave you alone with her, but it 
was only for a few minutes. When I came back ... Mom was kneeling on the stone steps, hugging herself and crying. She said — she said you were gone. 
She said Hera claimed you and you were as good as dead. I didn’t know what she’d done. I was afraid she’d completely lost her mind. I ran all over the 
place looking for you, but you’d just vanished. She had to drag me away, kicking and screaming. For the next few days I was hysterical. I don't remember 
everything, but I called the police on Mom and they questioned her for a long time. Afterward, we fought. She told me I’d betrayed her, that I should support 
her, like she was the only one who mattered. Finally I couldn't stand it. Your disappearance was the last straw. I ran away from home, and I never went 
back, not even when Mom died a few years ago. I thought you were gone forever. I never told anyone about you — not even Annabeth or Luke, my two best 
friends. It was just too painful.” 

“Chiron knew.” Jason’s voice sounded far away. “When I got to camp, he took one look at me and said, ‘\t>u should be dead.”’ 

“That doesn’t make sense,” Thalia insisted. “I never told him.” 

“Hey,” Leo said. “Important thing is you’ve got each other now, right? You two are lucky.” 

Thalia nodded. “Leo’s right. Look at you. Ntiu’re my age. You’ve grown up.” 

“But where have I been?” Jason said. “How could I be missing all that time? And the Roman stuff ...” 

Thalia frowned. “The Roman stuff?” 

“Nt>ur brother speaks Latin,” Leo said. “He calls gods by their Roman names, and he’s got tattoos.” Leo pointed out the marks on Jason’s arm. Then 
he gave Thalia the rundown about the other weird stuff that had happened: Boreas turning into Aquilon, Lycaon calling Jason a “child of Rome,” and the 
wolves backing off when Jason spoke Latin to them. 

Thalia plucked her bowstring. “Latin. Zeus sometimes spoke Latin, the second time he stayed with Mom. Like I said, he seemed different, more 
formal.” 

“Nt>u think he was in his Roman aspect?” Jason asked. “And that’s why I think of myself as a child of Jupiter?” 

“Possibly,” Thalia said. “I’ve never heard of something like that happening, but it might explain why you think in Roman terms, why you can speak 
Latin rather than Ancient Greek. That would make you unique. Still, it doesn’t explain how you've survived without Camp Half-Blood. A child of Zeus, or 
Jupiter, or whatever you want to call him — you would’ve been hounded by monsters. If you were on your own, you should’ve died years ago. I know / 
wouldn’t have been able to survive without friends. You would’ve needed training, a safe haven — ” 

“He wasn't alone,” Leo blurted out. “We’ve heard about others like him.” 

Thalia looked at him strangely. “What do you mean?” 

Leo told her about the slashed-up purple shirt in Medea’s department store, and the story the Cyclopes told about the child of Mercury who spoke 
Latin. 

“Isn’t there anywhere else for demigods?” Leo asked. “I mean besides Camp Half-Blood? Maybe some crazy Latin teacher has been abducting 
children of the gods or something, making them think like Romans.” 

As soon as he said it, Leo realized how stupid the idea sounded. Thalia’s dazzling blue eyes studied him intently, making him feel like a suspect in a 
lineup. 

“I’ve been all over the country,” Thalia mused. “I’ve never seen evidence of a crazy Latin teacher, or demigods in purple shirts. Still ..." Her voice 
trailed off, like she’d just had a troubling thought. 

“What?” Jason asked. 

Thalia shook her head. “I’ll have to talk to the goddess. Maybe Artemis will guide us.” 

“She’s still talking to you?” Jason asked. “Most of the gods have gone silent.” 

“Artemis follows her own rules,” Thalia said. “She has to be careful not to let Zeus know, but she thinks Zeus is being ridiculous closing Olympus. 
She’s the one who set us on the trail of Lycaon. She said we’d find a lead to a missing friend of ours.” 

“Percy Jackson,” Leo guessed. “The guy Annabeth is looking for.” 

Thalia nodded, her face full of concern. 

Leo wondered if anyone had ever looked that worried all the times he’d disappeared. He kind of doubted it. 

“So what would Lycaon have to do with it?” Leo asked. “And how does it connect to us?” 




“We need to find out soon,” Thalia admitted. “If your deadline is tomorrow, we’re wasting time. Aeolus could tell you — ” 

The white wolf appeared again at the doorway and yipped insistently. 

“I have to get moving.” Thalia stood. “Otherwise I’ll lose the other Hunters’ trail. First, though, I’ll take you to Aeolus’s palace.” 

“If you can’t, it’s okay,” Jason said, though he sounded kind of distressed. 

“Oh, please.” Thalia smiled and helped him up. “I haven’t had a brother in years. I think I can stand a few minutes with you before you get annoying. 
Now, let’s go!" 




XXXVI 



LEO 

When Leo saw/ how well Piper and Hedge were being treated, he was thoroughly offended. 

He’d imagined them freezing their hindquarters off in the snow, but the Hunter Phoebe had set up this silver tent pavilion thing right outside the cave. 
How she’d done it so fast, Leo had no idea, but inside was a kerosene heater keeping them toasty warm and a bunch of comfy throw pillows. Piper 
looked back to normal, decked out in a new parka, gloves, and camo pants like a Hunter. She and Hedge and Phoebe were kicking back, drinking hot 
chocolate. 

“Oh, no way,” Leo said. “We’ve been sitting in a cave and you get the luxury tent? Somebody give me hypothermia. I want hot chocolate and a parka!" 
Phoebe sniffed. “Boys,” she said, like it was the worst insult she could think of. 

“It’s all right, Phoebe,” Thalia said. “They’ll need extra coats. And I think we can spare some chocolate.” 

Phoebe grumbled, but soon Leo and Jason were also dressed in silvery winter clothes that were incredibly lightweight and warm. The hot chocolate 
was first-rate. 

“Cheers!” said Coach Hedge. He crunched down his plastic thermos cup. 

“That cannot be good for your intestines,” Leo said. 

Thalia patted Piper on the back. “You up for moving?” 

Piper nodded. “Thanks to Phoebe, yeah. Nt>u guys are really good at this wilderness survival thing. I feel like I could run ten miles.” 

Thalia winked at Jason. “She’s tough for a child of Aphrodite. I like this one.” 

“Hey, I could run ten miles too,” Leo volunteered. “Tough Hephaestus kid here. Let’s hit it.” 

Naturally, Thalia ignored him. 

It took Phoebe exactly six seconds to break camp, which Leo could not believe. The tent self-collapsed into a square the size of a pack of chewing 
gum. Leo wanted to ask her for the blueprints, but they didn’t have time. 

Thalia ran uphill through the snow, hugging a tiny little path on the side of the mountain, and soon Leo was regretting trying to look macho, because 
the Hunters left him in the dust. 

Coach Hedge leaped around like a happy mountain goat, coaxing them on like he used to do on track days at school. “Come on, Valdez! Pick up the 
pace! Let’s chant. I've got a girl in Kalamazoo — ” 

“Let’s not,” Thalia snapped. 

So they ran in silence. 

Leo fell in next to Jason at the back of the group. “How you doing, man?” 

Jason’s expression was enough of an answer: Not good. 

“Thalia takes it so calmly,” Jason said. “Like it’s no big deal that I appeared. I didn't know what I was expecting, but ... she’s not like me. She seems 
so much more together.” 

“Hey, she’s not fighting amnesia,” Leo said. “Plus, she’s had more time to get used to this whole demigod thing. \bu fight monsters and talk to gods 
for a while, you probably get used to surprises.” 

“Maybe,” Jason said. “I just wish I understood what happened when I was two, why my mom got rid of me. Thalia ran away because of me.” 

“Hey, whatever’s happened, it wasn’t your fault. And your sister is pretty cool. She’s a lot like you.” 

Jason took that in silence. Leo wondered if he’d said the right things. He wanted to make Jason feel better, but this was way outside his comfort 
zone. 

Leo wished he could reach inside his tool belt and pick just the right wrench to fix Jason’s memory — maybe a little hammer — bonk the sticking spot 
and make everything run right. That would be a lot easier than trying to talk it through. Not good with organic life forms. Thanks for those inherited traits, 
Dad. 

He was so lost in thought, he didn’t realize the Hunters had stopped. He slammed into Thalia and nearly sent them both down the side of the 
mountain the hard way. Fortunately, the Hunter was light on her feet. She steadied them both, then pointed up. 

“That,” Leo choked, “is a really large rock.” 

They stood near the summit of Pikes Peak. Below them the world was blanketed in clouds. The air was so thin, Leo could hardly breathe. Night had 
set in, but a full moon shone and the stars were incredible. Stretching out to the north and south, peaks of other mountains rose from the clouds like 
islands — or teeth. 

But the real show was above them. Hovering in the sky, about a quarter mile away, was a massive free-floating island of glowing purple stone. It was 
hard to judge its size, but Leo figured it was at least as wide as a football stadium and just as tall. The sides were rugged cliffs, riddled with caves, and 
every once in a while a gust of wind burst out with a sound like a pipe organ blast. At the top of the rock, brass walls ringed some kind of a fortress. 

The only thing connecting Pikes Peak to the floating island was a narrow bridge of ice that glistened in the moonlight. 

Then Leo realized the bridge wasn’t exactly ice, because it wasn’t solid. As the winds changed direction, the bridge snaked around — blurring and 
thinning, in some places even breaking into a dotted line like the vapor trail of a plane. 

“We’re not seriously crossing that,” Leo said. 

Thalia shrugged. “I’m not a big fan of heights, I'll admit. But if you want to get to Aeolus’s fortress, this is the only way." 

“Is the fortress always hanging there?” Piper asked. “How can people not notice it sitting on top of Pikes Peak?” 

“The Mist,” Thalia said. “Still, mortals do notice it indirectly. Some days, Pikes Peak looks purple. People say it’s a trick of the light, but actually it’s 
the color of Aeolus’s palace, reflecting off the mountain face.” 

“It’s enormous,” Jason said. 

Thalia laughed. “You should see Olympus, little brother.” 

“>bu’re serious? >bu’ve been there?” 

Thalia grimaced as if it wasn’t a good memory. “We should go across in two different groups. The bridge is fragile.” 

“That’s reassuring,” Leo said. “Jason, can’t you just fly us up there?” 

Thalia laughed. Then she seemed to realize Leo’s question wasn’t a joke. “Wait ... Jason, you can fly?” 

Jason gazed up at the floating fortress. “Well, sort of. More like I can control the winds. But the winds up here are so strong, I’m not sure I’d want to try. 



Thalia, you mean . . . you can’t fly?” 

For a second, Thalia looked genuinely afraid. Then she got her expression under control. Leo realized she was a lot more scared of heights than she 
was letting on. 

“Truthfully,” she said, “I’ve never tried. Might be better if we stuck to the bridge.” 

Coach Hedge tapped the ice vapor trail with his hoof, then jumped onto the bridge. Amazingly, it held his weight. “Easy! I’ll go first. Piper, come on, 
girl. I’ll give you a hand." 

“No, that’s okay,” Piper started to say, but the coach grabbed her hand and dragged her up the bridge. 

When they were about halfway, the bridge still seemed to be holding them just fine. 

Thalia turned to her Hunterfriend. “Phoebe, I’ll be back soon. Go find the others. Tell them I’m on my way.” 

“Nt>u sure?” Phoebe narrowed her eyes at Leo and Jason, like they might kidnap Thalia or something. 

“It’s fine,” Thalia promised. 

Phoebe nodded reluctantly, then raced down the mountain path, the white wolves at her heels. 

“Jason, Leo, just be careful where you step,” Thalia said. “It hardly ever breaks.” 

“It hasn’t met me yet,” Leo muttered, but he and Jason led the way up the bridge. 

Halfway up, things went wrong, and of course it was Leo’s fault. Piper and Hedge had already made it safely to the top and were waving at them, 
encouraging them to keep climbing, but Leo got distracted. He was thinking about bridges — how he would design something way more stable than this 
shifting ice vapor business if this were his palace. He was pondering braces and support columns. Then a sudden revelation stopped him in his tracks. 
“Why do they have a bridge?” he asked. 

Thalia frowned. “Leo, this isn’t a good place to stop. What do you mean?” 

“They’re wind spirits,” Leo said. “Can’t they fly?” 

“Nfes, but sometimes they need a way to connect to the world below.” 

“So the bridge isn’t always here?” Leo asked. 

Thalia shook her head. “The wind spirits don’t like to anchor to the earth, but sometimes it’s necessary. Like now. They know you’re coming.” 

Leo’s mind was racing. He was so excited he could almost feel his body’s temperature rising. He couldn’t quite put his thoughts into words, but he 
knew he was on to something important. 

“Leo?” Jason said. “What are you thinking?” 

“Oh, gods,” Thalia said. “Keep moving. Look at your feet.” 

Leo shuffled backward. With horror, he realized his body temperature really was rising, just as it had years ago at that picnic table under the pecan 
tree, when his anger had gotten away from him. Now, excitement was causing the reaction. His pants steamed in the cold air. His shoes were literally 
smoking, and the bridge didn’t like it. The ice was thinning. 

“Leo, stop it," Jason warned. “\bu’re going to melt it.” 

“I’ll try,” Leo said. But his body was overheating on its own, running as fast as his thoughts. “Listen, Jason, what did Hera call you in that dream? She 
called you a bridge.” 

“Leo, seriously, cool down,” Thalia said. “I don’t what you’re talking about, but the bridge is — ’’ 

“Just listen,” Leo insisted. “If Jason is a bridge, what’s he connecting? Maybe two different places that normally don’t get along — like the air palace 
and the ground. You had to be somewhere before this, right? And Hera said you were an exchange.” 

“An exchange.” Thalia’s eyes widened. “Oh, gods.” 

Jason frowned. “What are you two talking about?” 

Thalia murmured something like a prayer. “I understand now why Artemis sent me here. Jason — she told me to hunt for Lycaon and I would find a clue 
about Percy. You are the clue. Artemis wanted us to meet so I could hear your story.” 

“I don’t understand,” he protested. “I don't have a story. I don’t remember anything." 

“But Leo’s right,” Thalia said. “It’s all connected. If we just knew where — ” 

Leo snapped his fingers. “Jason, what did you call that place in your dream? That ruined house. The Wolf House?” 

Thalia nearly choked. “The Wolf House? Jason, why didn’t you tell me that! That’s where they’re keeping Hera?” 

“Nt>u know where it is?” Jason asked. 

Then the bridge dissolved. Leo would’ve fallen to his death, but Jason grabbed his coat and pulled him to safety. The two of them scrambled up the 
bridge, and when they turned, Thalia was on the other side of a thirty-foot chasm. The bridge was continuing to melt. 

“Go!” Thalia shouted, backing down the bridge as it crumbled. “Find out where the giant is keeping Piper’s dad. Save him! I’ll take the Hunters to the 
Wolf House and hold it until you can get there. We can do both!” 

“But where is the Wolf House?” Jason shouted. 

“You know where it is, little brother!” She was so far away now that they could barely hear her voice over the wind. Leo was pretty sure she said: “I’ll 
see you there. I promise.” 

Then she turned and raced down the dissolving bridge. 

Leo and Jason had no time to stand around. They climbed for their lives, the ice vapor thinning under their feet. Several times, Jason grabbed Leo 
and used the winds to keep them aloft, but it was more like bungee jumping than flying. 

When they reached the floating island, Piper and Coach Hedge pulled them aboard just as the last of the vapor bridge vanished. They stood gasping 
for breath at the base ofastone stairway chiseled into the side of the cliff, leading up to the fortress. 

Leo looked back down. The top of Pikes Peak floated below them in a sea of clouds, but there was no sign of Thalia. And Leo had just burned their 
only exit. 

“What happened?” Piper demanded. “Leo, why are your clothes smoking?” 

“I got a little heated,” he gasped. “Sorry, Jason. Honest. I didn’t — ’’ 

“It’s all right,” Jason said, but his expression was grim. “We’ve got less than twenty-four hours to rescue a goddess and Piper’s dad. Let’s go see the 
king of the winds.” 




X X X V l ! 



JASON 

Jason had found his sisterand lost her in less than an hour. As they climbed the cliffs of the floating island, he kept looking back, but Thalia was gone. 

Despite what she’d said about meeting him again, Jason wondered. She’d found a new family with the Hunters, and a new mother in Artemis. She 
seemed so confident and comfortable with her life, Jason wasn’t sure if he’d ever be part of it. And she seemed so set on finding her friend Percy. Had 
she ever searched for Jason that way? 

Not fair, he told himself. She thought you were dead. 

He could barely tolerate what she’d said about their mom. It was almost like Thalia had handed him a baby — a really loud, ugly baby — and said, 
Here, this is yours. Carry it. He didn’t want to carry it. He didn’t want to look at it or claim it. He didn’t want to know that he had an unstable mother who’d 
gotten rid of him to appease a goddess. No wonder Thalia had run away. 

Then he remembered the Zeus cabin at Camp Half-Blood — that tiny little alcove Thalia had used as a bunk, out of sight from the glowering statue of 
the sky god. Their dad wasn’t much of a bargain, either. Jason understood why Thalia had renounced that part of her life too, but he was still resentful. He 
couldn’t be so lucky. He was left holding the bag — literally. 

The golden backpack of winds was strapped over his shoulders. The closer they got to Aeolus’s palace, the heavier the bag got. The winds 
struggled, rumbling and bumping around. 

The only one who seemed in a good mood was Coach Hedge. He kept bounding up the slippery staircase and trotting back down. “Come on, 
cupcakes! Only a few thousand more steps!" 

As they climbed, Leo and Piper left Jason in his silence. Maybe they could sense his bad mood. Piper kept glancing back, worried, as if he were the 
one who’d almost died of hypothermia rather than she. Or maybe she was thinking about Thalia’s idea. They’d told her what Thalia had said on the bridge 
— how they could save both her dad and Hera — but Jason didn’t really understand how they were going to do that, and he wasn’t sure if the possibility had 
made Piper more hopeful or just more anxious. 

Leo kept swatting his own legs, checking for signs that his pants were on fire. He wasn't steaming anymore, but the incident on the ice bridge had 
really freaked Jason out. Leo hadn’t seemed to realize that he had smoke coming out his ears and flames dancing through his hair. If Leo started 
spontaneously combusting every time he got excited, they were going to have a tough time taking him anywhere. Jason imagined trying to get food at a 
restaurant. Ill have a cheeseburger and— Ahhhi My friend’s on fire! Get me a bucket! 

Mostly, though, Jason worried about what Leo had said. Jason didn’t want to be a bridge, or an exchange, or anything else. He just wanted to know 
where he’d come from. And Thalia had looked so unnerved when Leo mentioned the burned-out house in his dreams — the place the wolf Lupa had told 
him was his starting point. How did Thalia know that place, and why did she assume Jason could find it? 

The answer seemed close. But the nearer Jason got to it, the less it cooperated, like the winds on his back. 

Finally they arrived at the top of the island. Bronze walls marched all the way around the fortress grounds, though Jason couldn’t imagine who would 
possibly attack this place. Twenty-foot-high gates opened for them, and a road of polished purple stone led up to the main citadel — a white-columned 
rotunda, Greek style, like one of the monuments in Washington, D.C. — except for the cluster of satellite dishes and radio towers on the roof. 

“That’s bizarre,” Piper said. 

“Guess you can’t get cable on a floating island,” Leo said. “Dang, check this guy’s front yard.” 

The rotunda sat in the center of a quarter-mile circle. The grounds were amazing in a scary way. They were divided into four sections like big pizza 
slices, each one representing a season. 

The section on their right was an icy waste, with bare trees and a frozen lake. Snowmen rolled across the landscape as the wind blew, so Jason 
wasn’t sure if they were decorations or alive. 

To their left was an autumn park with gold and red trees. Mounds of leaves blew into patterns — gods, people, animals that ran after each other before 
scattering back into leaves. 

In the distance, Jason could see two more areas behind the rotunda. One looked like a green pasture with sheep made out of clouds. The last 
section was a desert where tumbleweeds scratched strange patterns in the sand like Greek letters, smiley faces, and a huge advertisement that read: 
watch aeolus nightly! 

“One section for each of the four wind gods,” Jason guessed. “Four cardinal directions.” 

“I’m loving that pasture.” Coach Hedge licked his lips. “Nbu guys mind — ” 

“Go ahead,” Jason said. He was actually relieved to send the satyr off. It would be hard enough getting on Aeolus’s good side without Coach Hedge 
waving his club and screaming, “Die!” 

While the satyr ran off to attack springtime, Jason, Leo, and Piper walked down the road to the steps of the palace. They passed through the front 
doors into a white marble foyer decorated with purple banners that read olympian weather channel, and some that just read ow! 

“Hello!” A woman floated up to them. Literally floated. She was pretty in that elfish way Jason associated with nature spirits at Camp Half-Blood 
— petite, slightly pointy ears, and an ageless face that could’ve been sixteen or thirty. Her brown eyes twinkled cheerfully. Even though there was no wind, 
her dark hair blew in slow motion, shampoo-commercial style. Her white gown billowed around her like parachute material. Jason couldn’t tell if she had 
feet, but if so, they didn’t touch the floor. She had a white tablet computer in her hand. “Are you from Lord Zeus?” she asked. “We’ve been expecting you.” 

Jason tried to respond, but it was a little hard to think straight, because he’d realized the woman was see-through. Her shape faded in and out like 
she was made of fog. 

“Are you a ghost?” he asked. 

Right away he knew he’d insulted her. The smile turned into a pout. “I’m an aura, sir. A wind nymph, as you might expect, working for the lord of the 
winds. My name is Mellie. We don’t have ghosts.” 

Piper came to the rescue. “No, of course you don’t! My friend simply mistook you for Helen of Troy, the most beautiful mortal of all time. It’s an easy 
mistake.” 

Wow, she was good. The compliment seemed a little over the top, but Mellie the aura blushed. “Oh . . . well, then. So you are from Zeus?” 

“Er,” Jason said, “I’m the son of Zeus, yeah.” 

“Excellent! Please, right this way.” She led them through some security doors into another lobby, consulting her tablet as she floated. She didn’t look 



where she was going, but apparently it didn’t matter as she drifted straight through a marble column with no problem. “We’re out of prime time now, so 
that’s good,” she mused. “I can fit you in right before his 11:12 spot.” 

“Urn, okay,” Jason said. 

The lobby was a pretty distracting place. Winds blasted around them, so Jason felt like he was pushing through an invisible crowd. Doors blew open 
and slammed by themselves. 

The things Jason could see were just as bizarre. Paper airplanes of all different sizes and shapes sped around, and other wind nymphs, aurai, would 
occasionally pluck them out of the air, unfold and read them, then toss them back into the air, where the planes would refold themselves and keep flying. 

An ugly creature fluttered past. She looked like a mix between an old lady and a chicken on steroids. She had a wrinkled face with black hair tied in a 
hairnet, arms like a human plus wings like a chicken, and a fat, feathered body with talons for feet. It was amazing she could fly at all. She kept drifting 
around and bumping into things like a parade balloon. 

“Not an aura?" Jason asked Mellie as the creature wobbled by. 

Mellie laughed. “That’s a harpy, of course. Our, ah, ugly stepsisters, I suppose you would say. Don’t you have harpies on Olympus? They’re spirits of 
violent gusts, unlike us aurai. We’re all gentle breezes.” 

She batted her eyes at Jason. 

“’Course you are,” he said. 

“So,” Piper prompted, “you were taking us to see Aeolus?” 

Mellie led them through a set of doors like an airlock. Above the interior door, a green light blinked. 

“We have a few minutes before he starts,” Mellie said cheerfully. “He probably won’t kill you if we go in now. Come along!” 




XXXVII 



JASON 

JASON’S JAJ/V DROPPED. The CENTRAL SECTION of Aeolus’s fortress was as big as a cathedral, with a soaring domed roof covered in silver. Television 
equipment floated randomly through the air — cameras, spotlights, set pieces, potted plants. And there was no floor. Leo almost fell into the chasm before 
Jason pulled him back. 

“Holy — !” Leo gulped. “Hey, Mellie. A little warning next time!” 

An enormous circular pit plunged into the heart of the mountain. It was probably half a mile deep, honeycombed with caves. Some of the tunnels 
probably led straight outside. Jason remembered seeing winds blast out of them when they'd been on Pikes Peak. Other caves were sealed with some 
glistening material like glass or wax. The whole cavern bustled with harpies, aurai, and paper airplanes, but for someone who couldn’t fly, it would be a 
very long, very fatal fall. 

“Oh, my,” Mellie gasped. “I’m so sorry.” She unclipped a walkie-talkie from somewhere inside her robes and spoke into it: “Hello, sets? Is that 
Nuggets? Hi, Nuggets. Could we get a floor in the main studio, please? Nfes, a solid one. Thanks.” 

A few seconds later, an army of harpies rose from the pit — three dozen or so demon chicken ladies, all carrying squares of various building material. 
They went to work hammering and gluing — and using large quantities of duct tape, which didn’t reassure Jason. In no time there was a makeshift floor 
snaking out over the chasm. It was made of plywood, marble blocks, carpet squares, wedges of grass sod — just about anything. 

“That can’t be safe,” Jason said. 

“Oh, it is!” Mellie assured him. “The harpies are very good.” 

Easy for her to say. She just drifted across without touching the floor, but Jason decided he had the best chance at surviving, since he could fly, so he 
stepped out first. Amazingly, the floor held. 

Piper gripped his hand and followed him. “If I fall, you’re catching me.” 

“Uh, sure.” Jason hoped he wasn’t blushing. 

Leo stepped out next. “Nt/u’re catching me, too, Superman. But I ain’t holding your hand.” 

Mellie led them toward the middle of the chamber, where a loose sphere of flat-panel video screens floated around a kind of control center. A man 
hovered inside, checking monitors and reading paper airplane messages. 

The man paid them no attention as Mellie brought them forward. She pushed a forty-two-inch Sony out of their way and led them into the control area. 
Leo whistled. “I got to get a room like this.” 

The floating screens showed all sorts of television programs. Some Jason recognized — news broadcasts, mostly — but some programs looked a 
little strange: gladiators fighting, demigods battling monsters. Maybe they were movies, but they looked more like reality shows. 

At the far end of the sphere was a silky blue backdrop like a cinema screen, with cameras and studio lights floating around it. 

The man in the center was talking into an earpiece phone. He had a remote control in each hand and was pointing them at various screens, 
seemingly at random. 

He wore a business suit that looked like the sky — blue mostly, but dappled with clouds that changed and darkened and moved across the fabric. He 
looked like he was in his sixties, with a shock of white hair, but he had a ton of stage makeup on, and that smooth plastic-surgery look to his face, so he 
appeared not really young, not really old, just wrong — like a Ken doll someone had halfway melted in a microwave. His eyes darted back and forth from 
screen to screen, like he was trying to absorb everything at once. He muttered things into his phone, and his mouth kept twitching. He was either amused, 
or crazy, or both. 

Mellie floated toward him. “Ah, sir, Mr. Aeolus, these demigods — ” 

“Hold it!” He held up a hand to silence her, then pointed at one of the screens. “Watch!” 

It was one of those storm-chaser programs, where insane thrill-seekers drive after tornados. As Jason watched, a Jeep plowed straight into a funnel 
cloud and got tossed into the sky. 

Aeolus shrieked with delight. “The Disaster Channel. People do that on purpose !” He turned toward Jason with a mad grin. “Isn’t that amazing? Let’s 
watch it again.” 

“Urn, sir,” Mellie said, “this is Jason, son of — ” 

“>fes, yes, I remember,” Aeolus said. “You’re back. How did it go?” 

Jason hesitated. “Sorry? I think you’ve mistaken me — ” 

“No, no, Jason Grace, aren’t you? It was — what — last year? \bu were on your way to fight a sea monster, I believe.” 

“I — I don’t remember.” 

Aelous laughed. “Must not have been a very good sea monster! No, I remember every hero who’s ever come to me for aid. Odysseus — gods, he 
docked at my island for a month! At least you only stayed a few days. Now, watch this video. These ducks get sucked straight into — ” 

“Sir,” Mellie interrupted. “Two minutes to air.” 

“Air!” Aeolus exclaimed. “I love air. How do I look? Makeup!” 

Immediately a small tornado of brushes, blotters, and cotton balls descended on Aeolus. They blurred across his face in a cloud of flesh-tone smoke 
until his coloration was even more gruesome than before. Wind swirled through his hair and left it sticking up like a frosted Christmas tree. 

“Mr. Aeolus.” Jason slipped off the golden backpack. “We brought you these rogue storm spirits.” 

“Did you!” Aeolus looked at the bag like it was a gift from a fan — something he really didn't want. “Well, how nice.” 

Leo nudged him, and Jason offered the bag. “Boreas sent us to capture them for you. We hope you’ll accept them and stop — you know — ordering 
demigods to be killed.” 

Aeolus laughed, and looked incredulously at Mellie. “Demigods be killed — did I order that?” 

Mellie checked her computer tablet. “Yes, sir, fifteenth of September. ‘Storm spirits released by the death of Typhon, demigods to be held 
responsible,’ etc... yes, a general order for them all to be killed.” 

“Oh, pish,” Aeolus said. “I was just grumpy. Rescind that order, Mellie, and urn, who’s on guard duty — Teriyaki? — Teri, take these storm spirits down to 
cell block Fourteen E, will you?” 

A harpy swooped out of nowhere, snatched the golden bag, and spiraled into the abyss. 



Aeolus grinned at Jason. “Now, sorry about that kill-on-sight business. But gods, I really was mad, wasn’t I?” His face suddenly darkened, and his suit 
did the same, the lapels flashing with lightning. “You know ... I remember now. Almost seemed like a voice was telling me to give that order. A little cold 
tingle on the back of my neck.” 

Jason tensed. A cold tingle on the back of his neck ... Why did that sound so familiar? “A ... urn, voice in your head, sir?” 

“Yes. How odd. Mellie, should we kill them?” 

“No, sir,” she said patiently. “They just brought us the storm spirits, which makes everything all right.” 

“Of course.” Aeolus laughed. “Sorry. Mellie, let’s send the demigods something nice. A box of chocolates, perhaps.” 

“A box of chocolates to every demigod in the world, sir?” 

“No, too expensive. Never mind. Wait, it’s time! I’m on!” 

Aeolus flew off toward the blue screen as newscast music started to play. 

Jason looked at Piper and Leo, who seemed just as confused as he was. 

“Mellie,” he said, “is he ... always like that?” 

She smiled sheepishly. “Well, you know what they say. If you don’t like his mood, wait five minutes. That expression ‘whichever way the wind blows’ 
— that was based on him.” 

“And that thing about the sea monster,” Jason said. “Was I here before?” 

Mellie blushed. “I’m sorry, I don’t remember. I’m Mr. Aeolus’s new assistant. I’ve been with him longer than most, but still — not that long." 

“How long do his assistants usually last?” Piper asked. “ 

Oh . . .” Mellie thought for a moment. “I’ve been doing this for . . . twelve hours?” 

A voice blared from floating speakers: “And now, weather every twelve minutes! Here’s your forecaster for Olympian Weather — the OW! channel 
— Aeolus!” 

Lights blazed on Aeolus, who was now standing in front of the blue screen. His smile was unnaturally white, and he looked like he’d had so much 
caffeine his face was about to explode. 

“Hello, Olympus! Aeolus, master of the winds here, with weather every twelve! We’ll have a low-pressure system moving over Florida today so expect 
milder temperatures since Demeter wishes to spare the citrus farmers!” He gestured at the blue screen, but when Jason checked the monitors, he saw 
that a digital image was being projected behind Aeolus, so it looked like he was standing in front of a U.S. map with animated smiley suns and frowny 
storm clouds. “Along the eastern seaboard — oh, hold on.” He tapped his earpiece. “Sorry, folks! Poseidon is angry with Miami today so it looks like that 
Florida freeze is back on! Sorry, Demeter. Over in the Midwest, I’m not sure what St. Louis did to offend Zeus, but you can expect winter storms! Boreas 
himself is being called down to punish the area with ice. Bad news, Missouri! No, wait. Hephaestus feels sorry for central Missouri, so you all will have 
much more moderate temperatures and sunny skies.” 

Aeolus kept going like that — forecasting each area of the country and changing his prediction two or three times as he got messages over his 
earpiece — the gods apparently putting in orders for various winds and weather. 

“This can’t be right,” Jason whispered. “Weather isn’t this random.” 

Mellie smirked. “And how often are the mortal weathermen right? They talk about fronts and air pressure and moisture, but the weather surprises 
them all the time. At least Aeolus tells us v\Jny it’s so unpredictable. Very hard job, trying to appease all the gods at once. It’s enough to drive anyone ..." 
She trailed off, but Jason knew what she meant. Mad. Aeolus was completely mad. 

“And that’s the weather,” Aeolus concluded. “See you in twelve minutes, because I’m sure it’ll change!” 

The lights shut off, the video monitors went back to random coverage, and just for a moment, Aeolus’s face sagged with weariness. Then he seemed 
to remember he had guests, and he put a smile back on. 

“So, you brought me some rogue storm spirits,” Aeolus said. “I suppose ... thanks! And did you want something else? I assume so. Demigods 
always do.” 

Mellie said, “Urn, sir, this is Zeus’s son.” 

“Nfes, yes. I know that. I said I remembered him from before.” 

“But, sir, they’re here from Olympus." 

Aeolus looked stunned. Then he laughed so abruptly, Jason almost jumped into the chasm. “\bu mean you’re here on behalf of your father this time? 
Finally! I knewthey would send someone to renegotiate my contract!” 

“Urn, what?” Jason asked. 

“Oh, thank goodness!” Aeolus sighed with relief. “It’s been what, three thousand years since Zeus made me master of the winds. Not that I’m 
ungrateful, of course! But really, my contract is so vague. Obviously I’m immortal, but ‘master of the winds.’ What does that mean? Am I a nature spirit? A 
demigod? A god? I want to be god of the winds, because the benefits are so much better. Can we start with that?” 

Jason looked at his friends, mystified. 

“Dude,” Leo said, “you think we’re here to promote you?” 

“Nt>u are, then?” Aeolus grinned. His business suit turned completely blue — not a cloud in the fabric. “Marvelous! I mean, I think I’ve shown quite a bit 
of initiative with the weather channel, eh? And of course I’m in the press all the time. So many books have been written about me: Into Thin Air, Up in the 
Air, Gone wth the Wind—" 

“Er, I don’t think those are about you,” Jason said, before he noticed Mellie shaking her head. 

“Nonsense,” Aeolus said. “Mellie, they’re biographies of me, aren’t they?” 

“Absolutely, sir,” she squeaked. 

“There, you see? I don't read. Who has time? But obviously the mortals love me. So, we’ll change my official title to god of the winds. Then, about 
salary and staff — ” 

“Sir,” Jason said, “we’re not from Olympus.” 

Aeolus blinked. “But — ” 

“I’m the son of Zeus, yes,” Jason said, “but we're not here to negotiate your contract. We’re on a quest and we need your help." 

Aeolus’s expression hardened. “Like last time? Like every hero who comes here? Demigods! It’s always about you, isn’t it?” 

“Sir, please, I don't remember last time, but if you helped me once before — ” 

“I’m always helping! Well, sometimes I’m destroying, but mostly I’m helping, and sometimes I’m asked to do both at the same time! Why Aeneas, the 
first of your kind — ” 

“My kind?” Jason asked. “Nt>u mean, demigods?” 

“Oh, please!” Aeolus said. “I mean your line of demigods. Y)u know, Aeneas, son of Venus — the only surviving hero of Troy. When the Greeks burned 
down his city, he escaped to Italy, where he founded the kingdom that would eventually become Rome, blah, blah, blah. That’s what I meant.” 

“I don’t get it,” Jason admitted. 




Aeolus rolled his eyes. “The point being, I was thrown in the middle of that conflict, too! Juno calls up: ‘Oh, Aeolus, destroy Aeneas’s ships for me. I 
don’t like him.’ Then Neptune says, ‘No, you don’t! That’s my territory. Calm the winds.’ Then Juno is like, ‘No, wreck his ships, or I'll tell Jupiter you’re 
uncooperative!’ Do you think it’s easy juggling requests like that?” 

“No,” Jason said. “I guess not.” 

“And don’t get me started on Amelia Earhart! I’m still getting angry calls from Olympus about knocking her out of the sky!” 

“We just want information,” Piper said in her most calming voice. “We hear you know everything.” 

Aeolus straightened his lapels and looked slightly mollified. “Well ... that’s true, of course. For instance, I know that this business here” — he waggled 
his fingers at the three of them — “this harebrained scheme of Juno’s to bring you all together is likely to end in bloodshed. As for you, Piper McLean, I 
know your father is in serious trouble.” He held out his hand, and a scrap of paper fluttered into his grasp. It was a photo of Piper with a guy who must’ve 
been her dad. His face did look familiar. Jason was pretty sure he’d seen him in some movies. 

Piper took the photo. Her hands were shaking. “This — this is from his wallet.” 

“Nfes,” Aeolus said. “All things lost in the wind eventually come to me. The photo blew away when the Earthborn captured him." 

“The what?” Piper asked. 

Aeolus waved aside the question and narrowed his eyes at Leo. “Now, you, son of Hephaestus . . . yes, I see your future.” Another paper fell into the 
wind god’s hands — an old tattered drawing done in crayons. 

Leo took it as if it might be coated in poison. He staggered backward. 

“Leo?” Jason said. “What is it?” 

“Something I — I drew when I was a kid.” He folded it quickly and put it in his coat. “It’s ... yeah, it’s nothing.” 

Aeolus laughed. “Really? Just the key to your success! Now, where were we? Ah, yes, you wanted information. Are you sure about that? Sometimes 
information can be dangerous.” 

He smiled at Jason like he was issuing a challenge. Behind him, Mellie shook her head in warning. 

“Nfeah,” Jason said. “We need to find the lair of Enceladus.” 

Aeolus’s smile melted. “The giant? Why would you want to go there? He's horrible! He doesn’t even watch my program!” 

Piper held up the photo. “Aeolus, he’s got my father. We need to rescue him and find out where Hera is being held captive.” 

“Now, that’s impossible,” Aeolus said. “Even / can’t see that, and believe me, I’ve tried. There’s a veil of magic over Hera’s location — very strong, 
impossible to locate." 

“She’s at a place called the Wolf House,” Jason said. 

“Hold on!” Aelous put a hand to his forehead and closed his eyes. “I’m getting something! Yes, she’s at a place called the Wolf House! Sadly, I don’t 
know where that is.” 

“Enceladus does,” Piper persisted. “If you help us find him, we could get the location of the goddess — ” 

“Nfeah,” Leo said, catching on. “And if we save her, she’d be really grateful to you — ’’ 

“And Zeus might promote you,” Jason finished. 

Aeolus’s eyebrows crept up. “A promotion — and all you want from me is the giant’s location?” 

“Well, if you could get us there, too,” Jason amended, “that would be great.” 

Mellie clapped her hands in excitement. “Oh, he could do that! He often sends helpful winds — ” 

“Mellie, quiet!” Aeolus snapped. “I have half a mind to fire you for letting these people in under false pretenses.” 

Her face paled. “Nfes, sir. Sorry, sir.” 

“It wasn’t her fault,” Jason said. “But about that help . . .” 

Aelous tilted his head as if thinking. Then Jason realized the wind lord was listening to voices in his earpiece. 

“Well ... Zeus approves,” Aeolus muttered. “He says ... he says it would be better if you could avoid saving her until after the weekend, because he 
has a big party planned — Ow! That's Aphrodite yelling at him, reminding him that the solstice starts at dawn. She says I should help you. And 
Hephaestus... yes. Hmm. Very rare they agree on anything. Hold on ...” 

Jason smiled at his friends. Finally, they were having some good luck. Their godly parents were standing up for them. 

Back toward the entrance, Jason heard a loud belch. Coach Hedge waddled in from the lobby, grass all over his face. Mellie saw him coming across 
the makeshift floor and caught her breath. “Who is that ?” 

Jason stifled a cough. “That? That’s just Coach Hedge. Uh, Gleeson Hedge. He’s our ...” Jason wasn’t sure what to call him: teacher, friend, 
problem 1 

“Our guide.” 

“He’s so goatly,” Mellie murmured. 

Behind her, Piper poofed out her cheeks, pretending to vomit. 

“What’s up, guys?” Hedge trotted over. “Wow, nice place. Oh! Sod squares.” 

“Coach, you just ate,” Jason said. “And we’re using the sod as a floor. This is, ah, Mellie — ” 

“An aura." Hedge smiled winningly. “Beautiful as a summer breeze.” 

Mellie blushed. 

“And Aeolus here was just about to help us,” Jason said. 

“\fes," the wind lord muttered. “It seems so. \bu’ll find Enceladus on Mount Diablo.” 

“Devil Mountain?” Leo asked. “That doesn’t sound good.” 

“I remember that place!” Piper said. “I went there once with my dad. It’s just east of San Francisco Bay." 

“The Bay Area again?” The coach shook his head. “Not good. Not good at all.” 

“Now ...’’Aeolus began to smile. “As to getting you there — ” 

Suddenly his face went slack. He bent over and tapped his earpiece as if it were malfunctioning. When he straightened again, his eyes were wild. 
Despite the makeup, he looked like an old man — an old, very frightened man. “She hasn’t spoke to me for centuries. I can’t — yes, yes I understand.” 

He swallowed, regarding Jason as if he had suddenly turned into a giant cockroach. “I'm sorry, son of Jupiter. New orders. Nt>u all have to die.” 

Mellie squeaked. “But — but, sir! Zeus said to help them. Aphrodite, Hephaestus — ” 

“Mellie!” Aeolus snapped. “Your job is already on the line. Besides, there are some orders that transcend even the wishes of the gods, especially 
when it comes to the forces of nature.” 

“Whose orders?” Jason said. “Zeus will fire you if you don’t help us!” 

“I doubt it.” Aeolus flicked his wrist, and far below them, a cell door opened in the pit. Jason could hear storm spirits screaming out of it, spiraling up 
toward them, howling for blood. 

“Even Zeus understands the order of things,” Aeolus said. “And if she is waking — by all the gods — she cannot be denied. Good-bye, heroes. I’m 




terribly sorry, but I’ll have to make this quick. I’m back on the air in four minutes.” 

Jason summoned his sword. Coach Hedge pulled out his club. Mellie the aura yelled, “No!” 

She dived at their feet just as the storm spirits hit with hurricane force, blasting the floor to pieces, shredding the carpet samples and marble and 
linoleum into what should’ve been lethal projectiles, had Mellie’s robes not spread out like a shield and absorbed the brunt of the impact. The five of them 
fell into the pit, and Aeolus screamed above them, “Mellie, you are so fired!” 

“Quick,” Mellie yelled. “Son of Zeus, do you have any power over the air?” 

“A little!” 

“Then help me, or you’re all dead!” Mellie grabbed his hand, and an electric charge went through Jason’s arm. He understood what she needed. They 
had to control their fall and head for one of the open tunnels. The storm spirits were following them down, closing rapidly, bringing with them a cloud of 
deadly shrapnel. 

Jason grabbed Piper’s hand. “Group hug!” 

Hedge, Leo, and Piper tried to huddle together, hanging onto Jason and Mellie as they fell. 

“This is NOT GOOD!” Leo yelled. 

“Bring it on, gas bags!” Hedge yelled up at the storm spirits. “I’ll pulverize you!” 

“He’s magnificent,” Mellie sighed. 

“Concentrate?” Jason prompted. 

“Right!” she said. 

They channeled the wind so their fall became more of a tumble into the nearest open chute. Still, they slammed into the tunnel at painful speed and 
went rolling over each other down a steep vent that was not designed for people. There was no way they could stop. 

Mellie’s robes billowed around her. Jason and the others clung to her desperately, and they began to slow down, but the storm spirits were screaming 
into the tunnel behind them. 

“Can’t — hold — long,” Mellie warned. “Stay together! When the winds hit — ” 

“Ntiu’re doing great, Mellie,” Hedge said. “My own mama was an aura, you know. She couldn’t have done better herself.” 

“Iris-message me?” Mellie pleaded. 

Hedge winked. 

“Could you guys plan your date later?” Piper screamed. “Look!” 

Behind them, the tunnel was turning dark. Jason could feel his ears pop as the pressure built. 

“Can’t hold them,” Mellie warned. “But I'll try to shield you, do you one more favor.” 

“Thanks, Mellie,” Jason said. “I hope you get a new job.” 

She smiled, and then dissolved, wrapping them in a warm gentle breeze. Then the real winds hit, shooting them into the sky so fast, Jason blacked 




XXXIX 



PIPER 



Piper dreamed shewas on the Wilderness School dorm roof. 

The desert night was cold, but she’d brought blankets, and with Jason next to her, she didn’t need any more warmth. 

The air smelled of sage and burning mesquite. On the horizon, the Spring Mountains loomed like jagged black teeth, the dim glow of Las Vegas 
behind them. 

The stars were so bright, Piper had been afraid they wouldn’t be able to see the meteor shower. She didn’t want Jason to think she’d dragged him up 
here on false pretenses. (Even though her pretenses had been totally false.) But the meteors did not disappoint. One streaked across the sky almost 
every minute — a line of white, yellow, or blue fire. Piper was sure her Grandpa Tom would have some Cherokee myth to explain them, but at the moment 
she was busy creating her own story. 

Jason took her hand — finally — and pointed as two meteors skipped across the atmosphere and formed a cross. 

“Wow,” he said. “I can’t believe Leo didn’t want to see this.” 

“Actually, I didn’t invite him,” Piper said casually. 

Jason smiled. “Oh, yeah?” 

“Mm-hmm. \bu ever feel like three would be a crowd?” 

“>feah,” Jason admitted. “Like right now. \bu know how much trouble we’d get in if we got caught up here?” 

“Oh, I’d make up something,” Piper said. “I can be very persuasive. So you want to dance, or what?” 

He laughed. His eyes were amazing, and his smile was even better in the starlight. “With no music. At night. On a rooftop. Sounds dangerous.” 

“I’m a dangerous girl.” 

“That, I can believe.” 

He stood and offered her his hand. They slow danced a few steps, but it quickly turned into a kiss. Piper almost couldn’t kiss him again, because she 
was too busy smiling. 

Then her dream changed — or maybe she was dead in the Underworld — because she found herself back in Medea’s department store. 

“Please let this be a dream,” she murmured, “and not my eternal punishment.” 

“No, dear,” said a woman's honey-sweet voice. “No punishment.” 

Piper turned, afraid she’d see Medea, but a different woman stood next to her, browsing through the fifty-percent-off rack. 

The woman was gorgeous — shoulder-length hair, a graceful neck, perfect features, and an amazing figure tucked into jeans and a snowy white top. 
Piper had seen her share of actresses — most of her dad’s dates were knockout beautiful — but this lady was different. She was elegant without trying, 
fashionable without effort, stunning without makeup. After seeing Aeolus with his silly face-lifts and cosmetics, Piper thought this woman looked even more 
astonishing. There was nothing artificial about her. 

>fet as Piper watched, the woman’s appearance changed. Piper couldn’t decide the color of her eyes, or the exact color of her hair. The woman 
became more and more beautiful, as if her image were aligning itself to Piper’s thoughts — getting as close as possible to Piper’s ideal of beauty. 
“Aphrodite,” Piper said. “Mom?” 

The goddess smiled. “You’re only dreaming, my sweet. If anyone wonders, I wasn’t here. Okay?” 

“I — ” Piper wanted to ask a thousand questions, but they all crowded together in her head. 

Aphrodite held up a turquoise dress. Piper thought it looked awesome, but the goddess made a face. “This isn’t my color, is it? Pity, it’s cute. Medea 
really does have some lovely things here.” 

“This — this building exploded,” Piper stammered. “I saw it.” 

“>fes,” Aphrodite agreed. “I suppose that’s why everything’s on sale. Just a memory, now. And I’m sorry to pull you out of your other dream. Much more 
pleasant, I know.” 

Piper’s face burned. She didn’t know whether she was more angry or embarrassed, but mostly she felt hollow with disappointment. “It wasn’t real. It 
never even happened. So why do I remember it so vividly?” 

Aphrodite smiled. “Because you are my daughter, Piper. \bu see possibilities much more vividly than others. \bu see what could be. And it still might 
be — don’t give up. Unfortunately — ” The goddess gestured around the department store. “\fou have other trials to face, first. Medea will be back, along 
with many other enemies. The Doors of Death have opened.” 

“What do you mean?” 

Aphrodite winked at her. “Nfou’re a smart one, Piper. You know.” 

A cold feeling settled over her. “The sleeping woman, the one Medea and Midas called their patron. She’s managed to open a new entrance from the 
Underworld. She’s letting the dead escape back into the world.” 

“Mmm. And not just any dead. The worst, the most powerful, the ones most likely to hate the gods.” 

“The monsters are coming back from Tartarus the same way,” Piper guessed. “That’s why they don’t stay disintegrated.” 

“>fes. Their patron, as you call her, has a special relationship with Tartarus, the spirit of the pit.” Aphrodite held up a gold sequined top. “No . . . this 
would make me look ridiculous.” 

Piper laughed uneasily. “You? \bu can’t look anything but perfect.” 

“Nbu’re sweet,” Aphrodite said. “But beauty is about finding the right fit, the most natural fit. To be perfect, you have to feel perfect about yourself 
— avoid trying to be something you’re not. For a goddess, that’s especially hard. We can change so easily.” 

“My dad thought you were perfect.” Piper’s voice quavered. “He never got over you.” 

Aphrodite’s gaze became distant. “Yes ... Tristan. Oh, he was amazing. So gentle and kind, funny and handsome. Yet he had so much sadness 
inside.” 

“Could we please not talk about him in the past tense?” 

“I’m sorry, dear. I didn’t want to leave your father, of course. It’s always so hard, but it was for the best. If he had realized who I actually was — ” 

“Wait — he didn’t know you were a goddess?” 



“Of course not.” Aphrodite sounded offended. “I wouldn’t do that to him. For most mortals, that’s simply too hard to accept. It can ruin their lives! Ask 
your friend Jason — lovelyboy, by the way. His poor mother was destroyed when she found out she’d fallen in love with Zeus. No, it was much better Tristan 
believed that I was a mortal woman who left him without explanation. Better a bittersweet memory than an immortal, unattainable goddess. Which brings 
me to an important matter . . .” 

She opened her hand and showed Piper a glowing glass vial of pink liquid. “This is one of Medea’s kinder mixtures. It erases only recent memories. 
When you save your father, if you can save him, you should give him this.” 

Piper couldn’t believe what she was hearing. “Ybu want me to dope my dad? You want me to make him forget what he’s been through?” 

Aphrodite held up the vial. The liquid cast a pink glow over her face. “Ybur father acts confident, Piper, but he walks a fine line between two worlds. 
He’s worked his whole life to deny the old stories about gods and spirits, yet he fears those stories might be real. He fears that he’s shut off an important 
part of himself, and someday it will destroy him. Now he’s been captured by a giant. He’s living a nightmare. Even if he survives ... if he has to spend the 
rest of his life with those memories, knowing that gods and spirits walk the earth, it will shatter him. That’s what our enemy hopes for. She will break him, 
and thus break your spirit.” 

Piper wanted to shout that Aphrodite was wrong. Her dad was the strongest person she knew. Piper would never take his memories the way Hera 
had taken Jason’s. 

But somehow she couldn’t stay angry with Aphrodite. She remembered what her dad had said months ago, at the beach at Big Sur: If I really 
believed in Ghost Country, or animal spirits, or Greek gods... I don't think I could sleep at night. Id always be looking for somebody to blame. 

Now Piper wanted someone to blame, too. 

“Who is she?” Piper demanded. “The one controlling the giants?” 

Aphrodite pursed her lips. She moved to the next rack, which held battered armor and ripped togas, but Aphrodite looked through them as if they 
were designer outfits. 

“Nt>u have a strong will,” she mused. “I’m never given much credit among the gods. My children are laughed at. They’re dismissed as conceited and 
shallow.” 

“Some of them are.” 

Aphrodite laughed. “Granted. Perhaps I’m conceited and shallow, too, sometimes. A girl has to indulge. Oh, this is nice.” She picked up a burned and 
stained bronze breastplate and held it up for Piper to see. “No?” 

“No,” Piper said. “Are you going to answer my question?” 

“Patience, my sweet,” the goddess said. “My point is that love is the most powerful motivator in the world. It spurs mortals to greatness. Their noblest, 
bravest acts are done for love.” 

Piper pulled out her dagger and studied its reflective blade. “Like Helen starting the Trojan War?” 

“Ah, Katoptris.” Aphrodite smiled. “I’m glad you found it. I get so much flack for that war, but honestly, Paris and Helen were a cute couple. And the 
heroes of that war are immortal now — at least in the memories of men. Love is powerful, Piper. It can bring even the gods to their knees. I told this to my 
son Aeneas when he escaped from Troy. He thought he had failed. He thought he was a loser! But he traveled to Italy — ” 

“And became the forebear of Rome." 

“Exactly. \t>u see, Piper, my children can be quite powerful. You can be quite powerful, because my lineage is unique. I am closer to the beginning of 
creation than any other Olympian.” 

Piper struggled to remember about Aphrodite’s birth. “Didn’t you ... rise from the sea? Standing on a seashell?” 

The goddess laughed. “That painter Botticelli had quite an imagination. I never stood on a seashell, thank you very much. But yes, I rose from the sea. 
The first beings to rise from Chaos were the Earth and Sky — Gaea and Ouranos. When their son the Titan Kronos killed Ouranos — ” 

“By chopping him to pieces with a scythe,” Piper remembered. 

Aphrodite wrinkled her nose. “Yes. The pieces of Ouranos fell into the sea. His immortal essence created sea foam. And from that foam — ” 

“You were born. I remember now. So you’re — ” 

“The last child of Ouranos, who was greater than the gods or the Titans. So, in a strange way, I’m the eldest Olympian god. As I said, love is a 
powerful force. And you, my daughter, are much more than a pretty face. Which is why you already know who is waking the giants, and who has the power 
to open doors into the deepest parts of the earth.” 

Aphrodite waited, as if she could sense Piper slowly putting together the pieces of a puzzle, which made a dreadful picture. 

“Gaea,” Piper said. “The earth itself. That's our enemy.” 

She hoped Aphrodite would say no, but the goddess kept her eyes on the rack of tattered armor. “She has slumbered for eons, but she is slowly 
waking. Even asleep, she is powerful, but once she wakes ... we will be doomed. You must defeat the giants before that happens, and lull Gaea back into 
her slumber. Otherwise the rebellion has only begun. The dead will continue to rise. Monsters will regenerate with even greater speed. The giants will lay 
waste to the birthplace of the gods. And if they do that, all civilization will burn.” 

“But Gaea? Mother Earth?” 

“Do not underestimate her,” Aphrodite warned. “She is a cruel deity. She orchestrated Ouranos’s death. She gave Kronos the sickle and urged him 
to kill his own father. While the Titans ruled the world, she slumbered in peace. But when the gods overthrew them, Gaea woke again in all her anger and 
gave birth to a new race — the giants — to destroy Olympus once and for all." 

“And it’s happening again,” Piper said. “The rise of the giants.” 

Aphrodite nodded. “Now you know. What will you do?” 

“Me?” Piper clenched her fists. “What am I supposed to do? Put on a pretty dress and sweet-talk Gaea into going back to sleep?” 

“I wish that would work,” Aphrodite said. “But no, you will have to find your own strengths, and fight for what you love. Like my favored ones, Helen and 
Paris. Like my son Aeneas.” 

“Helen and Paris died,” Piper said. 

“And Aeneas became a hero,” the goddess countered. “The first great hero of Rome. The result will depend on you, Piper, but I will tell you this: The 
seven greatest demigods must be gathered to defeat the giants, and that effort will not succeed without you. When the two sides meet . . . you will be the 
mediator. Ybu will determine whether there is friendship or bloodshed.” 

“What two sides?” 

Piper’s vision began to dim. 

“Nt>u must wake soon, my child,” said the goddess. “I do not always agree with Hera, but she’s taken a bold risk, and I agree it must be done. Zeus 
has kept the two sides apart for too long. Only together will you have the power to save Olympus. Now, wake, and I hope you like the clothes I picked out." 
“What clothes?” Piper demanded, but the dream faded to black. 




X L 



PIPER 

PIPER WOKEATATABLEATASIDEWALK CAFE 

For a second, she thought she was still dreaming. It was a sunny morning. The air was brisk but not unpleasant for sitting outside. At the other tables, 
a mix of bicyclists, business people, and college kids sat chatting and drinking coffee. 

She could smell eucalyptus trees. Lots of foot traffic passed in front of quaint little shops. The street was lined with bottle-brush trees and blooming 
azaleas as if winter was a foreign concept. 

In other words: she was in California. 

Her friends sat in chairs around her — all of them with their hands calmly folded across their chests, dozing pleasantly. And they all had new clothes on. 
Piper looked down at her own outfit and gasped. “Mother!” 

She yelled louder than she meant. Jason flinched, bumping the table with his knees, and then all of them were awake. 

“What?” Hedge demanded. “Fight who? Where?” 

“Falling!” Leo grabbed the table. “No — not falling. Where are we?” 

Jason blinked, trying to get his bearings. He focused on Piper and made a little choking sound. “What are you wearing?” 

Piper probably blushed. She was wearing the turquoise dress she’d seen in her dream, with black leggings and black leather boots. She had on her 
favorite silver charm bracelet, even though she’d left that back home in L.A., and her old snowboarding jacket from her dad, which amazingly went with the 
outfit pretty well. She pulled out Katoptris, and judging from the reflection in the blade, she’d gotten her hair done, too. 

“It’s nothing,” she said. “It’s my — ” She remembered Aphrodite’s warning not to mention that they’d talked. “It’s nothing.” 

Leo grinned. “Aphrodite strikes again, huh? You’re gonna be the best-dressed warrior in town, beauty queen.” 

“Hey, Leo.” Jason nudged his arm. “>bu look at yourself recently?” 

“What . . . oh." 

All of them had been give a makeover. Leo was wearing pinstriped pants, black leather shoes, a white collarless shirt with suspenders, and his tool 
belt, Ray-Ban sunglasses, and a porkpie hat. 

“God, Leo.” Piper tried not to laugh. “I think my dad wore that to his last premiere, minus the tool belt.” 

“Hey, shut up!” 

“I think he looks good,” said Coach Hedge. “’Course, I look better.” 

The satyr was a pastel nightmare. Aphrodite had given him a baggy canary yellow zoot suit with two-tone shoes that fit over his hooves. He had a 
matching yellow broad-brimmed hat, a rose-colored shirt, a baby blue tie, and a blue carnation in his lapel, which Hedge sniffed and then ate. 

“Well,” Jason said, “at least your mom overlooked me.” 

Piper knew that wasn’t exactly true. Looking at him, her heart did a little tap dance. Jason was dressed simply in jeans and a clean purple T-shirt, like 
he’d worn at the Grand Canyon. He had new track shoes on, and his hair was newly trimmed. His eyes were the same color as the sky. Aphrodite’s 
message was clear: This one needs no improvement. 

And Piper agreed. 

“Anyway,” she said uncomfortably, “how did we get here?” 

“Oh, that would be Mellie,” Hedge said, chewing happily on his carnation. “Those winds shot us halfway across the country, I’d guess. We would’ve 
been smashed flat on impact, but Mellie’s last gift — a nice soft breeze — cushioned our fall.” 

“And she got fired for us,” Leo said. “Man, we suck.” 

“Ah, she’ll be fine,” Hedge said. “Besides, she couldn’t help herself. I’ve got that effect on nymphs. I'll send her a message when we’re through with 
this quest and help her figure something out. That is one aura I could settle down with and raise a herd of baby goats.” 

“I’m going to be sick,” Piper said. “Anyone else want coffee?” 

“Coffee!” Hedge’s grin was stained blue from the flower. “I love coffee!” 

“Urn,” Jason said, “but — money? Our packs?” 

Piper looked down. Their packs were at their feet, and everything seemed to still be there. She reached into her coat pocket and felt two things she 
hadn't expected. One was a wad of cash. The other was a glass vial — the amnesia potion. She left the vial in her pocket and brought out the money. 

Leo whistled. “Allowance? Piper, your mom rocks!” 

“Waitress!” Hedge called. “Six double espressos, and whatever these guys want. Put it on the girl’s tab.” 

It didn’t take them long to figure out where they were. The menus said “Cafe Verve, Walnut Creek, CA.” And according to the waitress, it was 9 a.m. on 
December 21 , the winter solstice, which gave them three hours until Enceladus’s deadline. 

They didn’t have to wonder where Mount Diablo was, either. They could see it on the horizon, right at the end of the street. After the Rockies, Mount 
Diablo didn’t look very large, nor was it covered in snow. It seemed downright peaceful, its golden creases marbled with gray-green trees. But size was 
deceptive with mountains, Piper knew. It was probably much bigger up close. And appearances were deceptive too. Here they were — back in California 
— supposedly her home — with sunny skies, mild weather, laid-back people, and a plate of chocolate chip scones with coffee. And only a few miles away, 
somewhere on that peaceful mountain, a superpowerful, super-evil giant was about to have her father for lunch. 

Leo pulled something out of his pocket — the old crayon drawing Aeolus had given him. Aphrodite must’ve thought it was important if she'd magically 
transferred it to his new outfit. 

“What is that?” Piper asked. 

Leo folded it up gingerly again and put it away. “Nothing. >bu don’t want to see my kindergarten artwork.” 

“It’s more than that,” Jason guessed. “Aeolus said it was the key to our success.” 

Leo shook his head. “Not today. He was talking about... later.” 

“How can you be sure?” Piper asked. 

“Trust me,” Leo said. “Now — what’s our game plan?” 

Coach Hedge belched. He’d already had three espressos and a plate of doughnuts, along with two napkins and another flower from the vase on the 
table. He would’ve eaten the silverware, except Piper had slapped his hand. 



“Climb the mountain,” Hedge said. “Kill everything except Piper’s dad. Leave.” 

“Thank you, General Eisenhower,” Jason grumbled. 

“Hey, I’m just saying!” 

“Guys,” Piper said. “There’s more you need to know.” 

It was tricky, because she couldn’t mention her mom; but she told them she’d figured some things out in her dreams. She told them about their real 
enemy: Gaea. 

“Gaea?” Leo shook his head. “Isn’t that Mother Nature? She’s supposed to have, like, flowers in her hair and birds singing around her and deer and 
rabbits doing her laundry." 

“Leo, that’s Snow White,” Piper said. 

“Okay, but — ” 

“Listen, cupcake.” Coach Hedge dabbed the espresso out of his goatee. “Piper’s telling us some serious stuff, here. Gaea’s no softie. I’m not even 
sure / could take her.” 

Leo whistled. “Really?” 

Hedge nodded. “This earth lady — she and her old man the sky were nasty customers.” 

“Ouranos,” Piper said. She couldn’t help looking up at the blue sky, wondering if it had eyes. 

“Right,” Hedge said. “So Ouranos, he’s not the best dad. He throws their first kids, the Cyclopes, into Tartarus. That makes Gaea mad, but she bides 
her time. Then they have another set of kids — the twelve Titans — and Gaea is afraid they’ll get thrown into prison too. So she goes up to her son 
Kronos — ” 

“The big bad dude,” Leo said. “The one they defeated last summer.” 

“Right. And Gaea’s the one who gives him the scythe, and tells him, ‘Hey, why don't I call your dad down here? And while he’s talking to me, 
distracted, you can cut him to pieces. Then you can take over the world. Wouldn’t that be great?”’ 

Nobody said anything. Piper’s chocolate chip scone didn’t look so appetizing anymore. Even though she’d heard the story before, she still couldn’t 
quite get her mind around it. She tried to imagine a kid so messed up, he would kill his own dad just for power. Then she imagined a mom so messed up, 
she would convince her son to do it. 

“Definitely not Snow White,” she decided. 

“Nah, Kronos was a bad guy,” Hedge said. “But Gaea is literally the mother of all bad guys. She’s so old and powerful, so huge, that it’s hard for her 
to be fully conscious. Most of the time, she sleeps, and that’s the way we like her — snoring. ’’“But she talked to me,” Leo said. “How can she be asleep?” 
Gleeson brushed crumbs off his canary yellow lapel. He was on his sixth espresso now, and his pupils were as big as quarters. “Even in her sleep, 
part of her consciousness is active — dreaming, keeping watch, doing little things like causing volcanoes to explode and monsters to rise. Even now, she’s 
not fully awake. Believe me, you don’t want to see her fully awake.” 

“But she’s getting more powerful," Piper said. “She’s causing the giants to rise. And if their king comes back — this guy Porphyrion — ” 

“He’ll raise an army to destroy the gods,” Jason put in. “Starting with Hera. It’ll be another war. And Gaea will wake up fully.” 

Gleeson nodded. “Which is why it’s a good idea for us to stay off the ground as much as possible.” 

Leo looked warily at Mount Diablo. “So ... climbing a mountain. That would be bad.” 

Piper’s heart sank. First, she’d been asked to betray her friends. Now they were trying to help her rescue her dad even though they knew they were 
walking into a trap. The idea of fighting a giant had been scary enough. But the idea that Gaea was behind it — a force more powerful than a god or Titan 

“Guys, I can't ask you to do this,” Piper said. “This is too dangerous.” 

“Nt>u kidding?” Gleeson belched and showed them his blue carnation smile. “Who’s ready to beat stuff up?" 




X L I 



LEO 



Leo HOPED THE TAXI COULD TAKE them all the way to the top. 

No such luck. The cab made lurching, grinding sounds as it climbed the mountain road, and halfway up they found the ranger’s station closed, a chain 
blocking the way. 

“Far as I can go,” the cabbie said. “\bu sure about this? Gonna be a long walk back, and my car’s acting funny. I can’t wait for you.” 

“We’re sure.” Leo was the first one out. He had a bad feeling about what was wrong with the cab, and when he looked down he saw he was right. The 
wheels were sinking into the road like it was made of quicksand. Not fast — just enough to make the driver think he had a transmission problem or a bad 
axle — but Leo knew different. 

The road was hard-packed dirt. No reason at all it should have been soft, but already Leo’s shoes were starting to sink. Gaea was messing with 
them. 

While his friends got out, Leo paid the cabbie. He was generous — heck, why not? It was Aphrodite’s money. Plus, he had a feeling he might never be 
coming off this mountain. 

“Keep the change,” he said. “And get out of here. Quick.” 

The driver didn’t argue. Soon all they could see was his dust trail. 

The view from the mountain was pretty amazing. The whole inland valley around Mount Diablo was a patchwork of towns — grids of tree-lined streets 
and nice middle-class suburbs, shops, and schools. All these normal people living normal lives — the kind Leo had never known. 

“That’s Concord,” Jason said, pointing to the north. “Walnut Creek below us. To the south, Danville, past those hills. And that way ...” 

He pointed west, where a ridge of golden hills held back a layer of fog, like the rim of a bowl. “That’s the Berkeley Hills. The East Bay. Past that, San 
Francisco.” 

“Jason?” Piper touched his arm. “>bu remember something? Nfou’ve been here?” 

“>fes ... no.” He gave her an anguished look. “It just seems important.” 

“That’s Titan land.” Coach Hedge nodded toward the west. “Bad place, Jason. Trust me, this is as close to ’Frisco as we want to get.” 

But Jason looked toward the foggy basin with such longing that Leo felt uneasy. Why did Jason seem so connected with that place — a place Hedge 
said was evil, full of bad magic and old enemies? What if Jason came from here? Everybody kept hinting Jason was an enemy, that his arrival at Camp 
Half-Blood was a dangerous mistake. 

No, Leo thought. Ridiculous. Jason was their friend. 

Leo tried to move his foot, but his heels were now completely embedded in the dirt. 

“Hey, guys,” he said. “Let’s keep moving.” 

The others noticed the problem. 

“Gaea is stronger here,” Hedge grumbled. He popped his hooves free from his shoes, then handed the shoes to Leo. “Keep those for me, Valdez. 
They’re nice.” 

Leo snorted. “>fes, sir, Coach. Would you like them polished?” 

“That’s varsity thinking, Valdez.” Hedge nodded approvingly. “But first, we’d better hike up this mountain while we still can.” 

“How do we know where the giant is?” Piper asked. 

Jason pointed toward the peak. Drifting across the summit was a plume of smoke. From a distance, Leo had thought it was a cloud, but it wasn’t. 
Something was burning. 

“Smoke equals fire,” Jason said. “We’d better hurry.” 

The Wilderness School had taken Leo on several forced marches. He thought he was in good shape. But climbing a mountain when the earth was trying 
to swallow his feet was like jogging on a flypaper treadmill. 

In no time, Leo had rolled up the sleeves on his collarless shirt, even though the wind was cold and sharp. He wished Aphrodite had given him 
walking shorts and some more comfortable shoes, but he was grateful for the Ray-Bans that kept the sun out of his eyes. He slipped his hands into his 
tool belt and started summoning supplies — gears, a tiny wrench, some strips of bronze. As he walked, he built — not really thinking about it, just fiddling 
with pieces. 

By the time they neared the crest of the mountain, Leo was the most fashionably dressed sweaty, dirty hero ever. His hands were covered in machine 
grease. 

The little object he’d made was like a windup toy — the kind that rattles and walks across a coffee table. He wasn’t sure what it could do, but he 
slipped it into his tool belt. 

He missed his army coat with all its pockets. Even more than that, he missed Festus. He could use a fire-breathing bronze dragon right now. But Leo 
knew Festus would not be coming back — at least, not in his old form. 

He patted the picture in his pocket — the crayon drawing he’d made at the picnic table under the pecan tree when he was five years old. He 
remembered Tia Callida singing as he worked, and how upset he’d been when the winds had snatched the picture away. It isnt time yet, little hero, Tia 
Callida had told him. Someday, yes. Youll have your quest. You wll find your destiny, and your hard journey viH finally make sense. 

Now Aeolus had returned the picture. Leo knew that meant his destiny was getting close; but the journey was as frustrating as this stupid mountain. 
Every time Leo thought they’d reached the summit, it turned out to be just another ridge with an even higher one behind it. 

First things first, Leo told himself. Survive today. Figure out crayon drawing of destiny later. 

Finally Jason crouched behind a wall of rock. He gestured for the others to do the same. Leo crawled up next to him. Piper had to pull Coach Hedge 
down. 

“I don’t want to get my outfit dirty!” Hedge complained. 

“Shhh!” Piper said. 

Reluctantly, the satyr knelt. 

Just over the ridge where they were hiding, in the shadow of the mountain’s final crest, was a forested depression about the size of a football field, 



where the giant Enceladus had set up camp. 

Trees had been cut down to make a towering purple bonfire. The outer rim of the clearing was littered with extra logs and construction equipment 
— an earthmover; a big crane thing with rotating blades at the end like an electric shaver — must be a tree harvester, Leo thought — and a long metal 
column with an ax blade, like a sideways guillotine — a hydraulic ax. 

Why a giant needed construction equipment, Leo wasn’t sure. He didn’t see how the creature in front of him could even fit in the driver’s seat. The 
giant Enceladus was so large, so horrible, Leo didn’t want to look at him. 

But he forced himself to focus on the monster. 

To start with, he was thirty feet tall — easily as tall as the treetops. Leo was sure the giant could’ve seen them behind their ridge, but he seemed intent 
on the weird purple bonfire, circling it and chanting under his breath. From the waist up, the giant appeared humanoid, his muscular chest clad in bronze 
armor, decorated with flame designs. His arms were completely ripped. Each of his biceps was bigger than Leo. His skin was bronze but sooty with ash. 
His face was crudely shaped, like a half-finished clay figure, but his eyes glowed white, and his hair was matted in shaggy dreadlocks down to his 
shoulders, braided with bones. 

From the waist down, he was even more terrifying. His legs were scaly green, with claws instead of feet — like the forelegs of a dragon. In his hand, 
Enceladus held a spear the size of a flagpole. Every so often he dipped its tip in the fire, turning the metal molten red. 

“Okay,” Coach Hedge whispered. “Here’s the plan — ” 

Leo elbowed him. “You’re not charging him alone!" 

“Aw, c’mon.” 

Piper choked back a sob. “Look.” 

Just visible on the other side of the bonfire was a man tied to a post. His head slumped like he was unconscious, so Leo couldn't make out his face, 
but Piper didn't seem to have any doubts. 

“Dad,” she said. 

Leo swallowed. He wished this were a Tristan McLean movie. Then Piper’s dad would be faking unconsciousness. He’d untie his bonds and knock 
out the giant with some cleverly hidden anti-giant gas. Heroic music would start to play, and Tristan McLean would make his amazing escape, running 
away in slow motion while the mountainside exploded behind him. 

But this wasn’t a movie. Tristan McLean was half dead and about to be eaten. The only people who could stop it — three fashionably dressed 
teenaged demigods and a megalomaniac goat. 

“There’s four of us,” Hedge whispered urgently. “And only one of him.” 

“Did you miss the fact that he’s thirty feet tall?” Leo asked. 

“Okay,” Hedge said. “So you, me, and Jason distract him. Piper sneaks around and frees her dad.” 

They all looked at Jason. 

“What?” Jason asked. “I’m not the leader.” 

“\fes,” Piper said. “\bu are.” 

They’d never really talked about it, but no one disagreed, not even Hedge. Coming this far had been a team effort, but when it came to a life-and- 
death decision, Leo knew Jason was the one to ask. Even if he had no memory, Jason had a kind of balance to him. You could just tell he’d been in 
battles before, and he knew how to keep his cool. Leo wasn’t exactly the trusting type, but he trusted Jason with his life. 

“I hate to say it,” Jason sighed, “but Coach Hedge is right. A distraction is Piper’s best chance.” 

Not a good chance, Leo thought. Not even a survivable chance. Just their best chance. 

They couldn’t sit there all day and talk about it, though. It had to be close to noon — the giant’s deadline — and the ground was still trying to pull them 
down. Leo’s knees had already sunk two inches into the dirt. 

Leo looked at the construction equipment and got a crazy idea. He brought out the little toy he’d made on the climb, and he realized what it could do 
— if he was lucky, which he almost never was. 

“Let’s boogie,” he said. “Before I come to my senses.” 




X L II 



LEO 

The PLAN WENT WRONGALMOST IMMEDIATELY Piper scrambled along the ridge, trying to keep her head down, while Leo, Jason, and Coach Hedge walked 
straight into the clearing. 

Jason summoned his golden lance. He brandished it over his head and yelled, “Giant!” Which sounded pretty good, and a lot more confident than 
Leo could’ve managed. He was thinking more along the lines of, “We are pathetic ants! Don’t kill us!” 

Enceladus stopped chanting at the flames. He turned toward them and grinned, revealing fangs like a saber-toothed tiger’s. 

“Well,” the giant rumbled. “What a nice surprise.” 

Leo didn’t like the sound of that. His hand closed on his windup gadget. He stepped sideways, edging his way toward the bulldozer. 

Coach Hedge shouted, “Let the movie star go, you big ugly cupcake! Or I’m gonna plant my hoof right up your — ” 

“Coach,” Jason said. “Shut up.” 

Enceladus roared with laughter. “I’ve forgotten how funny satyrs are. When we rule the world, I think I’ll keep your kind around. You can entertain me 
while I eat all the other mortals.” 

“Is that a compliment?” Hedge frowned at Leo. “I don’t think that was a compliment.” 

Enceladus opened his mouth wide, and his teeth began to glow. 

“Scatter!” Leo yelled. 

Jason and Hedge dove to the left as the giant blew fire — a furnace blast so hot even Festus would’ve been jealous. Leo dodged behind the bulldozer, 
wound up his homemade device, and dropped it into the driver’s seat. Then he ran to the right, heading for the tree harvester. 

Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Jason rise and charge the giant. Coach Hedge ripped off his canary yellow jacket, which was now on fire, and 
bleated angrily. “I liked that outfit!” Then he raised his club and charged, too. 

Before they could get very far, Enceladus slammed his spear against the ground. The entire mountain shook. 

The shockwave sent Leo sprawling. He blinked, momentarily stunned. Through a haze of grassfire and bitter smoke, he saw Jason staggering to his 
feet on the other side of the clearing. Coach Hedge was knocked out cold. He’d fallen forward and hit his head on a log. His furry hindquarters were 
sticking straight up, with his canary yellow pants around his knees — a view Leo really didn’t need. 

The giant bellowed, “I see you, Piper McLean!” He turned and blew fire at a line of bushes to Leo’s right. Piper ran into the clearing like a flushed 
quail, the underbrush burning behind her. 

Enceladus laughed. “I’m happy you’ve arrived. And you brought me my prizes!” 

Leo’s gut twisted. This was the moment Piper had warned them about. They’d played right into Enceladus’s hands. 

The giant must’ve read Leo’s expression, because he laughed even louder. “That’s right, son of Hephaestus. I didn’t expect you all to stay alive this 
long, but it doesn’t matter. By bringing you here, Piper McLean has sealed the deal. If she betrays you, I'm as good as my word. She can take her father 
and go. What do I care about a movie star?” 

Leo could see Piper’s dad more clearly now. He wore a ragged dress shirt and torn slacks. His bare feet were caked with mud. He wasn’t 
completely unconscious, because he lifted his head and groaned — yep, Tristan McLean all right. Leo had seen that face in enough movies. But he had a 
nasty cut down the side of his face, and he looked thin and sickly — not heroic at all. 

“Dad!” Piper yelled. 

Mr. McLean blinked, trying to focus. “Pipes ... ? Where ...” 

Piper drew her dagger and faced Enceladus. “Let him go!” 

“Of course, dear,” the giant rumbled. “Swear your loyalty to me, and we have no problem. Only these others must die.” 

Piper looked back and forth between Leo and her dad. 

“He’ll kill you,” Leo warned. “Don’t trust him!” 

“Oh, come now,” Enceladus bellowed. “\bu know I was born to fight Athena herself? Mother Gaea made each of us giants with a specific purpose, 
designed to fight and destroy a particular god. I was Athena’s nemesis, the anti- Athena, you might say. Compared to some of my brethren — I am small! 
But I am clever. And I keep my bargain with you, Piper McLean. It’s part of my plan!” 

Jason was on his feet now, lance ready; but before he could act, Enceladus roared — a call so loud it echoed down the valley and was probably heard 
all the way to San Francisco. 

At the edge the woods, half a dozen ogre-like creatures rose up. Leo realized with nauseating certainty that they hadn’t simply been hiding there. 
They’d risen straight out of the earth. 

The ogres shuffled forward. They were small compared to Enceladus, about seven feet tall. Each one of them had six arms — one pair in the regular 
spot, then an extra pair sprouting out the top of their shoulders, and another set shooting from the sides of their rib cages. They wore only ragged leather 
loincloths, and even across the clearing, Leo could smell them. Six guys who never bathed, with six armpits each. Leo decided if he survived this day, 
he’d have to take a three-hour shower just to forget the stench. 

Leo stepped toward Piper. “What — what are those?” 

Her blade reflected the purple light of the bonfire. “Gegenees.” 

“In English?” Leo asked. 

“The Earthborn,” she said. “Six-armed giants who fought Jason — the first Jason.” 

“Very good, my dear!” Enceladus sounded delighted. “They used to live on a miserable place in Greece called Bear Mountain. Mount Diablo is much 
nicer! They are lesser children of Mother Earth, but they serve their purpose. They’re good with construction equipment — ” 

“Vroom, vroom!” one of the Earthborn bellowed, and the others took up the chant, each moving his six hands as though driving a car, as if it were 
some kind of weird religious ritual. “Vroom, vroom!” 

“>fes, thank you, boys,” Encedalus said. “They also have a score to settle with heroes. Especially anyone named Jason.” 

“Yay-son!” the Earthborn screamed. They all picked up clumps of earth, which solidified in their hands, turning to nasty pointed stones. “Where Yay- 
son? Kill Yay-son!” 

Enceladus smiled. “\bu see, Piper, you have a choice. Save your father, or ah, try to save your friends and face certain death.” 

Piper stepped forward. Her eves blazed with such raqe, even the Earthborn backed away. She radiated power and beauty, but it had nothing to do 



with her clothes or her makeup. 

“Nt>u will not take the people I love,” she said. ‘‘None of them.” 

Her words rippled across the clearing with such force, the Earthborn muttered, “Okay. Okay, sorry,” and began to retreat. 

“Stand your ground, fools!” Enceladus bellowed. He snarled at Piper. “This is why we wanted you alive, my dear. You could have been so useful to us. 
But as you wish. Earth-born! I will show you Jason.” 

Leo’s heart sank. But the giant didn’t point to Jason. He pointed to the other side of the bonfire, where Tristan McLean hung helpless and half 
conscious. 

“There is Jason,” Enceladus said with pleasure. “Tear him apart!” 

Leo’s biggest surprise: One look from Jason, and all three of them knew the game plan. When had that happened, that they could read each other so 
well? 

Jason charged Enceladus, while Piper rushed to her father, and Leo dashed for the tree harvester, which stood between Mr. McLean and the 
Earthborn. 

The Earthborn were fast, but Leo ran like a storm spirit. He leaped toward the harvester from five feet away and slammed into the driver’s seat. His 
hands flew across the controls, and the machine responded with unnatural speed — coming to life as if it knew how important this was. 

“Ha!” Leo screamed, and swung the crane arm through the bonfire, toppling burning logs onto the Earthborn and spraying sparks everywhere. Two 
giants went down under a fiery avalanche and melted back into the earth — hopefully to stay for a while. 

The other four ogres stumbled across burning logs and hot coals while Leo brought the harvester around. He smashed a button, and on the end of the 
crane arm the wicked rotating blades began to whir. 

Out of the corner of his eye, he could see Piper at the stake, cutting her father free. On the other side of the clearing, Jason fought the giant, 
somehow managing to dodge his massive spear and blasts of fire breath. Coach Hedge was still heroically passed out with his goat tail sticking up in the 
air. 

The whole side of the mountain would soon be ablaze. The fire wouldn’t bother Leo, but if his friends got trapped up here — No. He had to act quickly. 

One of the Earthborn — apparently not the most intelligent one — charged the tree harvester, and Leo swung the crane arm in his direction. As soon as 
the blades touched the ogre, he dissolved like wet clay and splattered all over the clearing. Most of him flew into Leo’s face. 

He spit clay out of his mouth and turned the harvester toward the three remaining Earthborn, who backed up quickly. 

“Bad vroom-vroom!” one yelled. 

“Nfeah, that’s right!” Leo yelled at them. “\bu want some bad vroom-vroom? Come on!” 

Unfortunately, they did. Three ogres with six arms, each throwing large, hard rocks at super speed — and Leo knew it was over. Somehow, he 
launched himself in a backward somersault off the harvester half a second before a boulder demolished the driver’s seat. Rocks slammed into metal. By 
the time Leo stumbled to his feet, the harvester looked like a crushed soda can, sinking in the mud. 

“Dozer!” Leo yelled. 

The ogres were picking up more clumps of earth, but this time they were glaring in Piper’s direction. 

Thirty feet away, the bulldozer roared to life. Leo’s makeshift gadget had done its job, burrowing into the earthmover’s controls and giving it a 
temporary life of its own. It roared toward the enemy. 

Just as Piper cut her father free and caught him in her arms, the giants launched their second volley of stones. The dozer swiveled in the mud, 
skidding to intercept, and most of the rocks slammed into its shovel. The force was so great it pushed the dozer back. Two rocks ricocheted and struck 
their throwers. Two more Earthborn melted into clay. Unfortunately, one rock hit the dozer’s engine, sending up a cloud of oily smoke, and the dozer 
groaned to a stop. Another great toy broken. 

Piper dragged her father below the ridge. The last Earth-born charged after her. 

Leo was out of tricks, but he couldn’t let that monster get to Piper. He ran forward, straight through the flames, and grabbed something 
— anything — from his tool belt. 

“Hey, stupid!” he yelled, and threw a screwdriver at the Earthborn. 

It didn’t kill the ogre, but it sure got his attention. The screwdriver sank hilt-deep into the Earthborn’s forehead like he was made of Play-Doh. 

The Earthborn yelped in pain and skittered to a halt. He pulled out the screwdriver, turned and glared at Leo. Sadly, this last ogre looked like the 
biggest and nastiest of the bunch. Gaea had really gone all out creating him — with extra muscle upgrades, deluxe ugly face, the whole package. 

Oh, great, Leo thought. I’ve made a friend. 

“Nt>u die!” the Earthborn roared. “Friend of Yay-son dies!” 

The ogre scooped up handfuls of dirt, which immediately hardened into rock cannonballs. 

Leo’s mind went blank. He reached into his tool belt, but he couldn’t think of anything that would help. He was supposed to be clever — but he couldn’t 
craft or build or tinker his way out of this one. 

Fine, he thought. I'll go out blaze-of-glory style. 

He burst into flames, yelled, “Hephaestus!” and charged at the ogre barehanded. 

He never got there. 

A blur of turquoise and black flashed behind the ogre. A gleaming bronze blade sliced up one side of the Earthborn and down the other. 

Six large arms dropped to the ground, boulders rolling out of their useless hands. The Earthborn looked down, very surprised. He mumbled, “Arms 
go bye-bye.” 

Then he melted into the ground. 

Piper stood there, breathing hard, her dagger covered with clay. Her dad sat at the ridge, dazed and wounded, but still alive. 

Piper’s expression was ferocious — almost crazy, like a cornered animal. Leo was glad she was on his side. 

“Nobody hurts my friends,” she said, and with a sudden warm feeling, Leo realized she was talking about him. Then she yelled, “Come on!" 

Leo saw that the battle wasn’t over. Jason was still fighting the giant Enceladus — and it wasn’t going well. 




JASON 



When Jason’s lance broke, he knew he was dead. 

The battle had started well enough. Jason’s instincts kicked in, and his gut told him he’d dueled opponents almost this big before. Size and strength 
equaled slowness, so Jason just had to be quicker — pace himself, wear out his opponent, and avoid getting smashed or flame-broiled. 

He rolled away from the giant’s first spear thrust and jabbed Enceladus in the ankle. Jason’s javelin managed to pierce the thick dragon hide, and 
golden ichor — the blood of immortals — trickled down the giant’s clawed foot. 

Enceladus bellowed in pain and blasted him with fire. Jason scrambled away, rolling behind the giant, and struck again behind his knee. 

It went on like that for seconds, minutes — it was hard to judge. Jason heard combat across the clearing — construction equipment grinding, fire 
roaring, monsters shouting, and rocks smashing into metal. He heard Leo and Piper yelling defiantly, which meant they were still alive. Jason tried not to 
think about it. He couldn’t afford to get distracted. 

Enceladus’s spear missed him by a millimeter. Jason kept dodging, but the ground stuck to his feet. Gaea was getting stronger, and the giant was 
getting faster. Enceladus might be slow, but he wasn’t dumb. He began anticipating Jason’s moves, and Jason’s attacks were only annoying him, making 
him more enraged. 

“I’m not some minor monster,” Enceladus bellowed. “I am a giant, born to destroy gods! Nt>ur little gold toothpick can’t kill me, boy.” 

Jason didn't waste energy replying. He was already tired. The ground clung to his feet, making him feel like he weighed an extra hundred pounds. 
The air was full of smoke that burned his lungs. Fires roared around him, stoked by the winds, and the temperature was approaching the heat of an oven. 

Jason raised his javelin to block the giant’s next strike — a big mistake. Don’t fight force with force, a voice chided him — the wolf Lupa, who’d told him 
that long ago. He managed to deflect the spear, but it grazed his shoulder, and his arm went numb. 

He backed up, almost tripping over a burning log. 

He had to delay — to keep the giant’s attention fixed on him while his friends dealt with the Earthborn and rescued Piper’s dad. He couldn’t fail. 

He retreated, trying to lure the giant to the edge of the clearing. Enceladus could sense his weariness. The giant smiled, baring his fangs. 

“The mighty Jason Grace,” he taunted. “Yes, we know about you, son of Jupiter. The one who led the assault on Mount Othrys. The one who single- 
handedly slew the Titan Krios and toppled the black throne.” 

Jason’s mind reeled. He didn’t know these names, yet they made his skin tingle, as if his body remembered the pain his mind didn’t. 

“What are you talking about?” he asked. He realized his mistake when Enceladus breathed fire. 

Distracted, Jason moved too slowly. The blast missed him, but heat blistered his back. He slammed into the ground, his clothes smoldering. He was 
blinded from ash and smoke, choking as he tried to breathe. 

He scrambled back as the giant’s spear cleaved the ground between his feet. 

Jason managed to stand. 

If he could only summon one good blast of lightning — but he was already drained, and in this condition, the effort might kill him. He didn’t even know if 
electricity would harm the giant. 

Death in battle is honorable, said Lupa’s voice. 

That’s real comforting, Jason thought. 

One last try: Jason took a deep breath and charged. 

Enceladus let him approach, grinning with anticipation. At the last second, Jason faked a strike and rolled between the giant’s legs. He came up 
quickly, thrusting with all his might, ready to stab the giant in the small of his back, but Enceladus anticipated the trick. He stepped aside with too much 
speed and agility for a giant, as if the earth were helping him move. 

He swept his spear sideways, met Jason’s javelin — and with a snap like a shotgun blast, the golden weapon shattered. 

The explosion was hotter than the giant’s breath, blinding Jason with golden light. The force knocked him off his feet and squeezed the breath out of 

him. 

When he regained his focus, he was sitting at the rim of a crater. Enceladus stood at the other side, staggering and confused. The javelin’s 
destruction had released so much energy, it had blasted a perfect cone-shaped pit thirty feet deep, fusing the dirt and rock into a slick glassy substance. 
Jason wasn’t sure how he’d survived, but his clothes were steaming. He was out of energy. He had no weapon. And Enceladus was still very much alive. 

Jason tried to get up, but his legs were like lead. Enceladus blinked at the destruction, then laughed. “Impressive! Unfortunately, that was your last 
trick, demigod." 

Enceladus leaped the crater in a single bound, planting his feet on either side of Jason. The giant raised his spear, its tip hovering six feet over 
Jason’s chest. 

“And now,” Enceladus said, “my first sacrifice to Gaea!” 



X L I V 



JASON 

Time SEEMED TO SLOW DOWN, WHICH WAS really frustrating, since Jason still couldn’t move. He felt himself sinking into the earth like the ground was a waterbed 
— comfortable, urging him to relax and give up. He wondered if the stories of the Underworld were true. Would he end up in the Fields of Punishment or 
Elysium? If he couldn’t remember any of his deeds, would they still count? He wondered if the judges would take that into consideration, or if his dad, 
Zeus, would write him a note: “Please excuse Jason from eternal damnation. He has had amnesia.” 

Jason couldn’t feel his arms. He could see the tip of the spear coming toward his chest in slow motion. He knew he should move, but he couldn’t 
seem to do it. Funny, he thought. All that effort to stay alive, and then, boom. Nbujust lie there helplessly while a fire-breathing giant impales you. 

Leo’s voice yelled, “Heads up!” 

A large black metal wedge slammed into Enceladus with a massive thunk! The giant toppled over and slid into the pit. 

“Jason, get up!” Piper called. Her voice energized him, shook him out of his stupor. He sat up, his head groggy, while Piper grabbed him under his 
arms and hauled him to his feet. 

“Don’t die on me,” she ordered. “You are not dying on me.” 

“>fes, ma’am.” He felt light-headed, but she was about the most beautiful thing he’d ever seen. Her hair was smoldering. Her face was smudged with 
soot. She had a cut on her arm, her dress was torn, and she was missing a boot. Beautiful. 

About a hundred feet behind her, Leo was standing over a piece of construction equipment — a long cannonlike thing with a single massive piston, 
the edge broken clean off. 

Then Jason looked down in the crater and saw where the other end of the hydraulic ax had gone. Enceladus was struggling to rise, an ax blade the 
size of a washing machine stuck in his breastplate. 

Amazingly, the giant managed to pull the ax blade free. He yelled in pain and the mountain trembled. Golden ichor soaked the front of his armor, but 
Enceladus stood. 

Shakily, he bent down and retrieved his spear. 

“Good try.” The giant winced. “But I cannot be beaten.” 

As they watched, the giant’s armor mended itself, and the ichor stopped flowing. Even the cuts on his dragon-scale legs, which Jason had worked so 
hard to make, were now just pale scars. 

Leo ran up to them, saw the giant, and cursed. “What is it with this guy? Die, already!” 

“My fate is preordained,” Enceladus said. “Giants cannot be killed by gods or heroes.” 

“Only by both,” Jason said. The giant’s smile faltered, and Jason saw in his eyes something like fear. “It’s true, isn't it? Gods and demigods have to 
work together to kill you.” 

“Nt>u will not live long enough to try!” The giant started stumbling up the crater’s slope, slipping on the glassy sides. 

“Anyone have a god handy?” Leo asked. 

Jason’s heart filled with dread. He looked at the giant below them, struggling to get out of the pit, and he knew what had to happen. 

“Leo,” he said, “if you’ve got a rope in that tool belt, get it ready.” 

He leaped at the giant with no weapon but his bare hands. 

“Enceladus!” Piper yelled. “Look behind you!” 

It was an obvious trick, but her voice was so compelling, even Jason bought it. The giant said, “What?” and turned like there was an enormous spider 
on his back. 

Jason tackled his legs at just the right moment. The giant lost his balance. Enceladus slammed into the crater and slid to the bottom. While he tried to 
rise, Jason put his arms around the giant’s neck. When Enceladus struggled to his feet, Jason was riding his shoulders. 

“Get off!” Enceladus screamed. He tried to grab Jason’s legs, but Jason scrabbled around, squirming and climbing over the giant’s hair. 

Father, Jason thought. If I've ever done anything good, anything you approved of, help me now I offer my own life— just save my friends. 

Suddenly he could smell the metallic scent of a storm. Darkness swallowed the sun. The giant froze, sensing it too. 

Jason yelled to his friends, “Hit the deck!” 

And every hair on his head stood straight up. 

Crack! 

Lightning surged through Jason’s body, straight through Enceladus, and into the ground. The giant’s back stiffened, and Jason was thrown clear. 
When he regained his bearings, he was slipping down the side of the crater, and the crater was cracking open. The lightning bolt had split the mountain 
itself. The earth rumbled and tore apart, and Enceladus’s legs slid into the chasm. He clawed helplessly at the glassy sides of the pit, and just for a 
moment managed to hold on to the edge, his hands trembling. 

He fixed Jason with a look of hatred. “You’ve won nothing, boy. My brothers are rising, and they are ten times as strong as I. We will destroy the gods 
at their roots! Nbu will die, and Olympus will die with — ” 

The giant lost his grip and fell into the crevice. 

The earth shook. Jason fell toward the rift. 

“Grab hold!” Leo yelled. 

Jason’s feet were at the edge of the chasm when he grabbed the rope, and Leo and Piper pulled him up. 

They stood together, exhausted and terrified, as the chasm closed like an angry mouth. The ground stopped pulling at their feet. 

For now, Gaea was gone. 

The mountainside was on fire. Smoke billowed hundreds of feet into the air. Jason spotted a helicopter — maybe firefighters or reporters — coming 
toward them. 

All around them was carnage. The Earthborn had melted into piles of clay, leaving behind only their rock missiles and some nasty bits of loincloth, but 
Jason figured they would re-form soon enough. Construction equipment lay in ruins. The ground was scarred and blackened. 

Coach Hedge started to move. He sat up with a groan and rubbed his head. His canary yellow pants were now the color of Dijon mustard mixed with 
mud. 



He blinked and looked around him at the battle scene. “Did I do this?” 

Before Jason could reply, Hedge picked up his club and got shakily to his feet. “Yeah, you wanted some hoof? I gave you some hoof, cupcakes! 
Who’s the goat, huh?” 

He did a little dance, kicking rocks and making what were probably rude satyr gestures at the piles of clay. 

Leo cracked a smile, and Jason couldn’t help it — he started to laugh. It probably sounded a little hysterical, but it was such a relief to be alive, he 
didn’t care. 

Then a man stood up across the clearing. Tristan McLean staggered forward. His eyes were hollow, shell-shocked, like someone who’d just walked 
through a nuclear wasteland. 

“Piper?” he called. His voice cracked. “Pipes, what — what is — ” 

He couldn’t complete the thought. Piper ran over to him and hugged him tightly but he almost didn’t seem to know her. 

Jason had felt a similar way — that morning at the Grand Canyon, when he woke with no memory. But Mr. McLean had the opposite problem. He had 
too many memories, too much trauma his mind just couldn’t handle. He was coming apart. 

“We need to get him out of here,” Jason said. 

“Nfeah, but how?” Leo said. “He’s in no shape to walk.” 

Jason glanced up at the helicopter, which was now circling directly overhead. “Can you make us a bullhorn or something?” he asked Leo. “Piper has 
some talking to do.” 




X L V 



PIPER 

Borrowingtheheucopterwas easy. Getting her dad on board was not. 

Piper needed only a few words through Leo’s improvised bullhorn to convince the pilot to land on the mountain. The Park Service copter was big 
enough for medical evacuations or search and rescue, and when Piper told the very nice ranger pilot lady that it would be a great idea to fly them to the 
Oakland Airport, she readily agreed. 

“No,” her dad muttered, as they picked him up off the ground. “Piper, what — there were monsters — there were monsters — ” 

She needed both Leo’s and Jason’s help to hold him, while Coach Hedge gathered their supplies. Fortunately Hedge had put his pants and shoes 
back on, so Piper didn’t have to explain the goat legs. 

It broke Piper’s heart to see her dad like this — pushed beyond the breaking point, crying like a little boy. She didn’t know what the giant had done to 
him exactly, how the monsters had shattered his spirit, but she didn’t think she could stand to find out. 

“It’ll be okay, Dad,” she said, making her voice as soothing as possible. She didn’t want to charmspeak her own father, but it seemed the only way. 
“These people are my friends. We’re going to help you. Nfou’re safe now.” 

He blinked, and looked up at helicopter rotors. “Blades. They had a machine with so many blades. They had six arms ...” 

When they got him to the bay doors, the pilot came over to help. “What’s wrong with him?” she asked. 

“Smoke inhalation,” Jason suggested. “Or heat exhaustion.” 

“We should get him to a hospital,” the pilot said. 

“It’s okay,” Piper said. “The airport is good.” 

“>feah, the airport is good,” the pilot agreed immediately. Then she frowned, as if uncertain why she’d changed her mind. “Isn’t he Tristan McLean, the 
movie star?” 

“No,” Piper said. “He only looks like him. Forget it.” 

“>feah,” the pilot said. “Only looks like him. I—” She blinked, confused. “I forgot what I was saying. Let’s get going." 

Jason raised his eyebrows at Piper, obviously impressed, but Piper felt miserable. She didn’t want to twist people’s minds, convince them of things 
they didn’t believe. It felt so bossy, so wrong — like something Drew would do back at camp, or Medea in her evil department store. And how would it help 
her father? She couldn’t convince him he would be okay, or that nothing had happened. His trauma was just too deep. 

Finally they got him on board, and the helicopter took off. The pilot kept getting questions over her radio, asking her where she was going, but she 
ignored them. They veered away from the burning mountain and headed toward the Berkeley Hills. 

“Piper.” Her dad grasped her hand and held on like he was afraid he’d fall. “It’s you? They told me — they told me you would die. They said ... horrible 
things would happen.” 

“It’s me, Dad.” It took all her willpower not to cry. She had to be strong for him. “Everything’s going to be okay.” 

“They were monsters,” he said. “Real monsters. Earth spirits, right out of Grandpa Tom’s stories — and the Earth Mother was angry with me. And the 
giant, Tsul’kalu, breathing fire — ” He focused on Piper again, his eyes like broken glass, reflecting a crazy kind of light. “They said you were a demigod, 
'rbur mother was ..." 

“Aphrodite,” Piper said. “Goddess of love.” 

“I— I — ” He took a shaky breath, then seemed to forget how to exhale. 

Piper’s friends were careful not to watch. Leo fiddled with a lug nut from his tool belt. Jason gazed at the valley below — the roads backing up as 
mortals stopped their cars and gawked at the burning mountain. Gleeson chewed on the stub of his carnation, and for once the satyr didn’t look in the 
mood to yell or boast. 

Tristan McLean wasn’t supposed to be seen like this. He was a star. He was confident, stylish, suave — always in control. That was the public image 
he projected. Piper had seen the image falter before. But this was different. Now it was broken, gone. 

“I didn’t know about Mom,” Piper told him. “Not until you were taken. When we found out where you were, we came right away. My friends helped me. 
No one will hurt you again.” 

Her dad couldn’t stop shivering. “Nbu’re heroes — you and your friends. I can’t believe it. You’re a real hero, not like me. Not playing a part. I’m so 
proud of you, Pipes." But the words were muttered listlessly, in a semi-trance. 

He gazed down on the valley, and his grip on Piper’s hand went slack, “\four mother never told me.” 

“She thought it was for the best.” It sounded lame, even to Piper, and no amount of charmspeak could change that. But she didn’t tell her dad what 
Aphrodite had really worried about: If he has to spend the rest of his life with those memories , knowing that gods and spirits walk the earth, it will 
shatter him. 

Piper felt inside the pocket of her jacket. The vial was still there, warm to her touch. 

But how could she erase his memories? Her dad finally knew who she was. He was proud of her, and for once she was his hero, not the other way 
around. He would never send her away now. They shared a secret. 

How could she go back to the way things were? 

She held his hand, speaking to him about small things — her time at the Wilderness School, her cabin at Camp Half-Blood. She told him how Coach 
Hedge ate carnations and got knocked on his butt on Mount Diablo, how Leo had tamed a dragon, and how Jason had made wolves back down by 
talking in Latin. Her friends smiled reluctantly as she recounted their adventures. Her dad seemed to relax as she talked, but he didn’t smile. Piper wasn’t 
even sure he heard her. 

As they passed over the hills into the East Bay, Jason tensed. He leaned so far out the doorway Piper was afraid he’d fall. 

He pointed. “What is that?” 

Piper looked down, but she didn’t see anything interesting — just hills, woods, houses, little roads snaking through the canyons. A highway cut through 
a tunnel in the hills, connecting the East Bay with the inland towns. 

“Where?” Piper asked. 

“That road,” he said. “The one that goes through the hills.” 

Piper picked up the com helmet the pilot had given her and relayed the question over the radio. The answer wasn’t very exciting. 



“She says it’s Highway 24,” Piper reported. “That’s the Caldecott Tunnel. Why?” 

Jason stared intently at the tunnel entrance, but he said nothing. It disappeared from view as they flew over downtown Oakland, but Jason still stared 
into the distance, his expression almost as unsettled as Piper’s dad’s. 

“Monsters,” her dad said, a tear tracing his cheek. “I live in a world of monsters.” 




X L V I 



PIPER 



Air TRAFFIC CONTROL DIDN’T WANT TO let an unscheduled helicopter land at the Oakland Airport — until Piper got on the radio. Then it turned out to be no 
problem. 

They unloaded on the tarmac, and everyone looked at Piper. 

“What now?” Jason asked her. 

She felt uncomfortable. She didn’t want to be in charge, but for her dad’s sake, she had to appear confident. She had no plan. She’d just 
remembered that he’d flown into Oakland, which meant his private plane would still be here. But today was the solstice. They had to save Hera. They had 
no idea where to go or if they were even too late. And how could she leave her dad in this condition? 

“First thing,” she said. “I — I have to get my dad home. I’m sorry, guys.” 

Their faces fell. 

“Oh,” Leo said. “I mean, absolutely. He needs you right now. We can take it from here.” 

“Pipes, no.” Her dad had been sitting in the helicopter doorway, a blanket around his shoulders. But he stumbled to his feet. “You have a mission. A 
quest. I can’t — ” 

“I’ll take care of him,” said Coach Hedge. 

Piper stared at him. The satyr was the last person she’d expected to offer. “Nt>u?” she asked. 

“I’m a protector,” Gleeson said. “That’s my job, not fighting.” 

He sounded a little crestfallen, and Piper realized maybe she shouldn’t have recounted how he got knocked unconscious in the last battle. In his own 
way, maybe the satyr was as sensitive as her dad. 

Then Hedge straightened, and set his jaw. “Of course, I’m good at fighting, too.” He glared at them all, daring them to argue. 

“Yes,” Jason said. 

“Terrifying,” Leo agreed. 

The coach grunted. “But I’m a protector, and I can do this. \bur dad’s right, Piper. You need to carry on with the quest.” 

“But ...” Piper’s eyes stung, as if she were back in the forest fire. “Dad ...” 

He held out his arms, and she hugged him. He felt frail. He was trembling so much, it scared her. 

“Let’s give them a minute,” Jason said, and they took the pilot a few yards down the tarmac. 

“I can’t believe it,” her dad said. “I failed you.” 

“No, Dad!” 

“The things they did, Piper, the visions they showed me ...” 

“Dad, listen.” She took out the vial from her pocket. “Aphrodite gave me this, for you. It takes away your recent memories. It’ll make it like none of this 
ever happened.” 

He gazed at her, as if translating her words from a foreign language. “But you’re a hero. I would forget that?” 

“Yes,” Piper whispered. She forced an assuring tone into her voice. “\fes, you would. It’ll be like — like before.” 

He closed his eyes and took a shaky breath. “I love you, Piper. I always have. I — I sent you away because I didn’t want you exposed to my life. Not the 
way I grew up — the poverty, the hopelessness. Not the Hollywood insanity either. I thought — I thought I was protecting you.” He managed a brittle laugh. “As 
if your life without me was better, or safer.” 

Piper took his hand. She’d heard him talk about protecting her before, but she’d never believed it. She’d always thought he was just rationalizing. Her 
dad seemed so confident and easygoing, like his life was a joyride. How could he claim she needed protecting from that? 

Finally Piper understood he’d been acting for her benefit, trying not to show how scared and insecure he was. He really had been trying to protect 
her. And now his ability to cope had been destroyed. 

She offered him the vial. “Take it. Maybe someday we’ll be ready to talk about this again. When you’re ready.” 

“When I’m ready,” he murmured. “Nt>u make it sound like — like I’m the one growing up. I’m supposed to be the parent.” He took the vial. His eyes 
glimmered with a small desperate hope. “I love you, Pipes.” 

“Love you, too, Dad.” 

He drank the pink liquid. His eyes rolled up into his head, and he slumped forward. Piper caught him, and her friends ran up to help. 

“Got him,” Hedge said. The satyr stumbled, but he was strong enough to hold Tristan McLean upright. “I already asked our ranger friend to call up his 
plane. It’s on the way now. Home address?” 

Piper was about to tell him. Then a thought occurred to her. She checked her dad’s pocket, and his BlackBerry was still there. It seemed bizarre that 
he’d still have something so normal after all he’d been through, but she guessed Enceladus hadn’t seen any reason to take it. 

“Everything’s on here,” Piper said. “Address, his chauffeur’s number. Just watch out for Jane.” 

Hedge’s eyes lit up, like he sensed a possible fight. “Who’s Jane?” 

By the time Piper explained, her dad’s sleek white Gulf-stream had taxied next to the helicopter. 

Hedge and the flight attendant got Piper’s dad on board. Then Hedge came down one last time to say his good-byes. He gave Piper a hug and 
glared at Jason and Leo. “You cupcakes take care of this girl, you hear? Or I’m gonna make you do push-ups.” 

“>bu got it, Coach,” Leo said, a smile tugging at his mouth. 

“No push-ups,” Jason promised. 

Piper gave the old satyr one more hug. “Thank you, Gleeson. Take care of him, please." 

“I got this, McLean,” he assured her. “They got root beer and veggie enchiladas on this flight, and one hundred percent linen napkins — yum! I could 
get used to this.” 

Trotting up the stairs, he lost one shoe, and his hoof was visible for just a second. The flight attendant’s eyes widened, but she looked away and 
pretended nothing was wrong. Piper figured she’d probably seen stranger things, working for Tristan McLean. 

When the plane was heading down the runaway, Piper started to cry. She’d been holding it in too long and she just couldn’t anymore. Before she 
knew it, Jason was hugging her, and Leo stood uncomfortably nearby, pulling Kleenex out of his tool belt. 



“Nt>ur dad’s in good hands,” Jason said. “\t>u did amazing.” 

She sobbed into his shirt. She allowed herself to be held for six deep breaths. Seven. Then she couldn’t indulge herself anymore. They needed her. 
The helicopter pilot was already looking uncomfortable, like she was starting to wonder why she’d flown them here. 

“Thank you, guys,” Piper said. “I — ” 

She wanted to tell them how much they meant to her. They’d sacrificed everything, maybe even their quest, to help her. She couldn’t repay them, 
couldn’t even put her gratitude into words. But her friends’ expressions told her they understood. 

Then, right next to Jason, the air began to shimmer. At first Piper thought it was heat off the tarmac, or maybe gas fumes from the helicopter, but 
she’d seen something like this before in Medea’s fountain. It was an Iris message. An image appeared in the air — a dark-haired girl in silver winter 
camouflage, holding a bow. 

Jason stumbled back in surprise. “Thalia!” 

“Thank the gods,” said the Hunter. The scene behind her was hard to make out, but Piper heard yelling, metal clashing on metal, and explosions. 
“We’ve found her,” Thalia said. “Where are you?” 

“Oakland,” he said. “Where are you?” 

“The Wolf House! Oakland is good; you’re not too far. We’re holding off the giant’s minions, but we can’t hold them forever. Get here before sunset, or 
it’s all over.” 

“Then it’s not too late?" Piper cried. Hope surged through her, but Thalia’s expression quickly dampened it. 

“Not yet,” Thalia said. “But Jason — it’s worse than I realized. Porphyrion is rising. Hurry.” 

“But where is the Wolf House?” he pleaded. 

“Our last trip,” Thalia said, her image starting to flicker. “The park. Jack London. Remember?” 

This made no sense to Piper, but Jason looked like he’d been shot. He tottered, his face pale, and the Iris message disappeared. 

“Bro, you all right?” Leo asked. “\bu know where she is?” 

“Nfes,” Jason said. “Sonoma Valley. Not far. Not by air.” 

Piper turned to the ranger pilot, who’d been watching all this with an increasingly puzzled expression. 

“Ma’am,” Piper said with her best smile. “Nt>u don’t mind helping us one more time, do you?” 

“I don’t mind,” the pilot agreed. 

“We can’t take a mortal into battle,” Jason said. “It’s too dangerous.” He turned to Leo. “Do you think you could fly this thing?” 

“Urn ...” Leo’s expression didn’t exactly reassure Piper. But then he put his hand on the side of the helicopter, concentrating hard, as if listening to the 
machine. 

“Bell 412HP utility helicopter,” Leo said. “Composite four-blade main rotor, cruising speed twenty-two knots, service ceiling twenty-thousand feet. The 
tank is near full. Sure, I can fly it.” 

Piper smiled at the ranger again. “\bu don’t have a problem with an under-aged unlicensed kid borrowing your copter, do you? We’ll return it.” 

“I—” The pilot nearly choked on the words, but she got them out: “I don’t have a problem with that." 

Leo grinned. “Hop in, kids. Uncle Leo’s gonna take you for a ride." 




X L V 



LEO 

Flyaheucopter? Sure,whynot Leo had done plenty of crazier things that week. 

The sun was going down as they flew north over the Richmond Bridge, and Leo couldn’t believe the day had gone so quickly. Once again, nothing 
like ADHD and a good fight to the death to make time fly. 

Piloting the chopper, he went back and forth between confidence and panic. If he didn’t think about it, he found himself automatically flipping the right 
switches, checking the altimeter, easing back on the stick, and flying straight. If he allowed himself to consider what he was doing, he started freaking out. 
He imagined his Aunt Rosa yelling at him in Spanish, telling him he was a delinquent lunatic who was going to crash and burn. Part of him suspected she 
was right. 

“Going okay?” Piper asked from the copilot’s seat. She sounded more nervous than he was, so Leo put on a brave face. 

“Aces,” he said. “So what’s the Wolf House?” 

Jason knelt between their seats. “An abandoned mansion in the Sonoma Valley. A demigod built it — Jack London.” 

Leo couldn’t place the name. “He an actor?” 

“Writer,” Piper said. “Adventure stuff, right? Call of the Wild ? White Fang?" 

“>feah,” Jason said. “He was a son of Mercury — I mean, Hermes. He was an adventurer, traveled the world. He was even a hobo for a while. Then he 
made a fortune writing. He bought a big ranch in the country and decided to build this huge mansion — the Wolf House.” 

“Named that ’cause he wrote about wolves?” Leo guessed. 

“Partially,” Jason said. “But the site, and the reason he wrote about wolves — he was dropping hints about his personal experience. There’re a lot of 
holes in his life story — how he was born, who his dad was, why he wandered around so much — stuff you can only explain if you know he was a demigod.” 

The bay slipped behind them, and the helicopter continued north. Ahead of them, yellow hills rolled out as far as Leo could see. 

“So Jack London went to Camp Half-Blood,” Leo guessed. 

“No,” Jason said. “No, he didn’t.” 

“Bro, you’re freaking me out with the mysterious talk. Are you remembering your past or not?” 

“Pieces,” Jason said. “Only pieces. None of it good. The Wolf House is on sacred ground. It’s where London started his journey as a child — where he 
found out he was a demigod. That’s why he returned there. He thought he could live there, claim that land, but it wasn’t meant for him. The Wolf House was 
cursed. It burned in a fire a week before he and his wife were supposed to move in. A few years later, London died, and his ashes were buried on the 
site.” 

“So,” Piper said, “how do you know all this?” 

A shadow crossed Jason’s face. Probably just a cloud, but Leo could swear the shape looked like an eagle. 

“I started my journey there too,” Jason said. “It’s a powerful place for demigods, a dangerous place. If Gaea can claim it, use its power to entomb 
Hera on the solstice and raise Porphyrion — that might be enough to awaken the earth goddess fully.” 

Leo kept his hand on the joystick, guiding the chopper at full speed — racing toward the north. He could see some weather ahead — a spot of 
darkness like a cloudbank ora storm, right where they were going. 

Piper’s dad had called him a hero earlier. And Leo couldn’t believe some of the things he’d done — smacking around Cyclopes, disarming exploding 
doorbells, battling six-armed ogres with construction equipment. They seemed like they had happened to another person. He was just Leo Valdez, an 
orphaned kid from Houston. He’d spent his life running away, and part of him still wanted to run. What was he thinking, flying toward a cursed mansion to 
fight more evil monsters? 

His mom’s voice echoed in his head: Nothing is unfixable. 

Except the fact that you’re gone forever, Leo thought. 

Seeing Piper and her dad back together had really driven that home. Even if Leo survived this quest and saved Hera, Leo wouldn’t have any happy 
reunions. He wouldn’t be going back to a loving family. He wouldn’t see his mom. 

The helicopter shuddered. Metal creaked, and Leo could almost imagine the tapping was Morse code: Not the end. Not the end. 

He leveled out the chopper, and the creaking stopped. He was just hearing things. He couldn’t dwell on his mom, or the idea that kept bugging him 
— that Gaea was bringing souls back from the Underworld — so why couldn’t he make some good come out of it? Thinking like that would drive him crazy. 
He had a job to do. 

He let his instincts take over — just like flying the helicopter. If he thought about the quest too much, or what might happen afterward, he’d panic. The 
trick was not to think — just get through it. 

“Thirty minutes out,” he told his friends, though he wasn’t sure how he knew. “If you want to get some rest, now’s a good time.” 

Jason strapped himself into the back of the helicopter and passed out almost immediately. Piper and Leo stayed wide-awake. 

After a few minutes of awkward silence, Leo said, “Your dad’ll be fine, you know. Nobody’s gonna mess with him with that crazy goat around.” 

Piper glanced over, and Leo was struck by how much she’d changed. Not just physically. Her presence was stronger. She seemed more ... here. At 
Wilderness School she’d spent the semester trying not to be seen, hiding out in the back row of the classroom, the back of the bus, the corner of the 
lunchroom as far as possible from the loud kids. Now she would be impossible to miss. It didn't matter what she was wearing — you’d have to look at her. 

“My dad,” she said thoughtfully. “Yeah, I know. I was thinking about Jason. I’m worried about him.” 

Leo nodded. The closer they got to that bank of dark clouds, the more Leo worried, too. “He’s starting to remember. That’s got to make him a little 
edgy.” 

“But what if . . . what if he’s a different person?” 

Leo had had the same thought. If the Mist could affect their memories, could Jason’s whole personality be an illusion, too? If their friend wasn’t their 
friend, and they were heading into a cursed mansion — a dangerous place for demigods — what would happen if Jason’s full memory came back in the 
middle of a battle? 

“Nah,” Leo decided. “After all we’ve been through? I can’t see it. We're a team. Jason can handle it.” 

Piper smoothed her blue dress, which was tattered and burned from their fight on Mount Diablo. “I hope you’re right. I need him ...” She cleared her 



throat. “I mean I need to trust him...” 

“I know,” Leo said. After seeing her dad break down, Leo understood Piper couldn’t afford to lose Jason as well. She’d just watched Tristan McLean, 
her cool suave movie star dad, reduced to near insanity. Leo could barely stand to watch that, but for Piper — Wow, Leo couldn’t even imagine. He figured 
that would make her insecure about herself, too. If weakness was inherited, she’d be wondering, could she break down the same way her dad did? 

“Hey, don’t worry,” Leo said. “Piper, you’re the strongest, most powerful beauty queen I've ever met. \bu can trust yourself. For what it’s worth, you can 
trust me too.” 

The helicopter dipped in a wind shear, and Leo almost jumped out of his skin. He cursed and righted the chopper. 

Piper laughed nervously. “Trust you, huh?” 

“Ah, shut up, already.” But he grinned at her, and fora second, it felt like he was just relaxing comfortably with a friend. 

Then they hit the storm clouds. 




X L V 



LEO 

At FIRST Leo THOUGHT ROCKS WERE pelting the windshield. Then he realized it was sleet. Frost built up around the edges of the glass, and slushy waves of 
ice blotted out his view. 

“An ice storm?” Piper shouted over the engine and the wind. “Is it supposed to be this cold in Sonoma?” 

Leo wasn’t sure, but something about this storm seemed conscious, malevolent — like it was intentionally slamming them. 

Jason woke up quickly. He crawled forward, grabbing their seats for balance. “We’ve got to be getting close.” 

Leo was too busy wrestling with the stick to reply. Suddenly it wasn’t so easy to drive the chopper. Its movements turned sluggish and jerky. The whole 
machine shuddered in the icy wind. The helicopter probably hadn’t been prepped for cold-weather flying. The controls refused to respond, and they 
started to lose altitude. 

Below them, the ground was a dark quilt of trees and fog. The ridge of a hill loomed in front of them and Leo yanked the stick, just clearing the 
treetops. 

“There!” Jason shouted. 

A small valley opened up before them, with the murky shape of a building in the middle. Leo aimed the helicopter straight for it. All around them were 
flashes of light that reminded Leo of the tracer fire at Midas’s compound. Trees cracked and exploded at the edges of the clearing. Shapes moved 
through the mist. Combat seemed to be everywhere. 

He set down the helicopter in an icy field about fifty yards from the house and killed the engine. He was about to relax when he heard a whistling 
sound and saw a dark shape hurtling toward them out of the mist. 

“Out!” Leo screamed. 

They leaped from the helicopter and barely cleared the rotors before a massive BOOM shook the ground, knocking Leo off his feet and splattering 
ice all over him. 

He got up shakily and saw that the world’s largest snowball — a chunk of snow, ice, and dirt the size of a garage — had completely flattened the Bell 

412 . 

“Nt>u all right?” Jason ran up to him, Piper at his side. They both looked fine except for being speckled with snow and mud. 

“>feah.” Leo shivered. “Guess we owe that ranger lady a new helicopter.” 

Piper pointed south. “Fighting’s over there.” Then she frowned. “No ... it’s all around us.” 

She was right. The sounds of combat rang across the valley. The snow and mist made it hard to tell for sure, but there seemed to be a circle of 
fighting all around the Wolf House. 

Behind them loomed Jack London's dream home — a massive ruin of red and gray stones and rough-hewn timber beams. Leo could imagine how it 
had looked before it burned down — a combination log cabin and castle, like a billionaire lumberjack might build. But in the mist and sleet, the place had a 
lonely, haunted feel. Leo could totally believe the ruins were cursed. 

“Jason!” a girl’s voice called. 

Thalia appeared from the fog, her parka caked with snow. Her bow was in her hand, and her quiver was almost empty. She ran toward them, but 
made it only a few steps before a six-armed ogre — one of the Earthborn — burst out of the storm behind her, a raised club in each hand. 

“Look out!” Leo yelled. They rushed to help, but Thalia had it under control. She launched herself into a flip, notching an arrow as she pivoted like a 
gymnast and landed in a kneeling position. The ogre got a silver arrow right between the eyes and melted into a pile of clay. 

Thalia stood and retrieved her arrow, but the point had snapped off. “That was my last one.” She kicked the pile of clay resentfully. “Stupid ogre.” 

“Nice shot, though,” Leo said. 

Thalia ignored him as usual (which no doubt meant she thought he was as cool as ever). She hugged Jason and nodded to Piper. “Just in time. My 
Hunters are holding a perimeter around the mansion, but we’ll be overrun any minute.” 

“By Earthborn?” Jason asked. 

“And wolves — Lycaon’s minions.” Thalia blew a fleck of ice off her nose. “Also storm spirits — ” 

“But we gave them to Aeolus!” Piper protested. 

“Who tried to kill us,” Leo reminded her. “Maybe he’s helping Gaea again.” 

“I don’t know,” Thalia said. “But the monsters keep re-forming almost as fast as we can kill them. We took the Wolf House with no problem: surprised 
the guards and sent them straight to Tartarus. But then this freak snowstorm blew in. Wave after wave of monsters started attacking. Now we’re 
surrounded. I don’t know who or what is leading the assault, but I think they planned this. It was a trap to kill anyone who tried to rescue Hera.” 

“Where is she?” Jason asked. 

“Inside,” Thalia said. “We tried to free her, but we can’t figure out how to break the cage. It’s only a few minutes until the sun goes down. Hera thinks 
that’s the moment when Porphyrion will be reborn. Plus, most monsters are stronger at night. If we don't free Hera soon — ■” 

She didn’t need to finish the thought. 

Leo, Jason, and Piper followed her into the ruined mansion. 

Jason stepped over the threshold and immediately collapsed. 

“Hey!” Leo caught him. “None of that, man. What’s wrong?” 

“This place ...” Jason shook his head. “Sorry ... It came rushing back to me.” 

“So you have been here,” Piper said. 

“We both have,” Thalia said. Her expression was grim, like she was reliving someone’s death. “This is where my mom took us when Jason was a 
child. She left him here, told me he was dead. He just disappeared.” 

“She gave me to the wolves,” Jason murmured. “At Hera’s insistence. She gave me to Lupa.” 

“That part I didn’t know.” Thalia frowned. “Who is Lupa?” 

An explosion shook the building. Just outside, a blue mushroom cloud billowed up, raining snowflakes and ice like a nuclear blast made of cold 
instead of heat. 



“Maybe this isn’t the time for questions,” Leo suggested. “Show us the goddess.” 

Once inside, Jason seemed to get his bearings. The house was built in a giant U, and Jason led them between the two wings to an outside courtyard 
with an empty reflecting pool. At the bottom of the pool, just as Jason had described from his dream, two spires of rock and root tendrils had cracked 
through the foundation. 

One of the spires was much bigger — a solid dark mass about twenty feet high, and to Leo it looked like a stone body bag. Underneath the mass of 
fused tendrils he could make out the shape of a head, wide shoulders, a massive chest and arms, like the creature was stuck waist deep in the earth. No, 
not stuck — rising. 

On the opposite end of the pool, the other spire was smaller and more loosely woven. Each tendril was as thick as a telephone pole, with so little 
space between them that Leo doubted he could’ve gotten his arm through. Still, he could see inside. And in the center of the cage stood Tia Callida. 

She looked exactly like Leo remembered: dark hair covered with a shawl, the black dress of a widow, a wrinkled face with glinting, scary eyes. 

She didn’t glow or radiate any sort of power. She looked like a regular mortal woman, his good old psychotic babysitter. 

Leo dropped into the pool and approached the cage. “Hola, Tia. Little bit of trouble?” 

She crossed her arms and sighed in exasperation. “Don't inspect me like I’m one of your machines, Leo Valdez. Get me out of here!” 

Thalia stepped next to him and looked at the cage with distaste — or maybe she was looking at the goddess. “We tried everything we could think of, 
Leo, but maybe my heart wasn’t in it. If it was up to me, I’d just leave her in there.” 

“Ohh, Thalia Grace,” the goddess said. “When I get out of here, you’ll be sorry you were ever born.” 

“Save it!” Thalia snapped. “\t>u’ve been nothing but a curse to every child of Zeus for ages. \bu sent a bunch of intesti nally challenged cows after my 
friend Annabeth — ” 

“She was disrespectful!” 

“Nt>u dropped a statue on my legs.” 

“It was an accident!” 

“And you took my brother!” Thalia’s voice cracked with emotion. “Here — on this spot. You ruined our lives. We should leave you to Gaea!” 

“Hey,” Jason intervened. “Thalia — Sis — I know. But this isn’t the time. \bu should help your Hunters.” 

Thalia clenched her jaw. “Fine. For you, Jason. But if you ask me, she isn’t worth it.” 

Thalia turned, leaped out of the pool, and stormed from the building. 

Leo turned to Hera with grudging respect. “Intesti nally challenged cows?” 

“Focus on the cage, Leo,” she grumbled. “And Jason — you are wiser than your sister. I chose my champion well.” 

“I’m not your champion, lady,” Jason said. “I’m only helping you because you stole my memories and you're better than the alternative. Speaking of 
which, what’s going on with that?” 

He nodded to the other spire that looked like the king-size granite body bag. Was Leo imagining it, or had it grown taller since they’d gotten here? 
“That, Jason,” Hera said, “is the king of the giants being reborn.” 

“Gross,” Piper said. 

“Indeed,” Hera said. “Porphyrion, the strongest of his kind. Gaea needed a great deal of power to raise him again — my power. For weeks I’ve grown 
weaker as my essence was used to grow him a new form.” 

“So you’re like a heat lamp,” Leo guessed. “Or fertilizer." 

The goddess glared at him, but Leo didn’t care. This old lady had been making his life miserable since he was a baby. He totally had rights to rag on 
her. 

“Joke all you wish,” Hera said in a clipped tone. “But at sundown, it will be too late. The giant will awake. He will offer me a choice: marry him, or be 
consumed by the earth. And I cannot marry him. We will all be destroyed. And as we die, Gaea will awaken.” 

Leo frowned at the giant’s spire. “Can’t we blow it up or something?” 

“Without me, you do not have the power,” Hera said. “\bu might as well try to destroy a mountain.” 

“Done that once today,” Jason said. 

“Just hurry up and let me out!” Hera demanded. 

Jason scratched his head. “Leo, can you do it?” 

“I don’t know.” Leo tried not to panic. “Besides, if she’s a goddess, why hasn’t she busted herself out?” 

Hera paced furiously around her cage, cursing in Ancient Greek. “Use your brain, Leo Valdez. I picked you because you’re intelligent. Once trapped, 
a god’s power is useless. Your own father trapped me once in a golden chair. It was humiliating! I had to beg — beg him for my freedom and apologize for 
throwing him off Olympus.” 

“Sounds fair,” Leo said. 

Hera gave him the godly stink-eye. “I’ve watched you since you were a child, son of Hephaestus, because I knew you could aid me at this moment. If 
anyone can find a way to destroy this abomination, it is you.” 

“But it’s not a machine. It’s like Gaea thrust her hand out of the ground and ...” Leo felt dizzy. The line of their prophecy came back to him: The forge 
and dove shall break the cage.“Hold on. I do have an idea. Piper, I’m going to need your help. And we’re going to need time.” 

The air turned brittle with cold. The temperature dropped so fast, Leo’s lips cracked and his breath changed to mist. Frost coated the walls of the 
Wolf House. Venti rushed in — but instead of winged men, these were shaped like horses, with dark storm-cloud bodies and manes that crackled with 
lightning. Some had silver arrows sticking out of their flanks. Behind them came red-eyed wolves and the six-armed Earthborn. 

Piper drew her dagger. Jason grabbed an ice-covered plank off the pool floor. Leo reached into his tool belt, but he was so shaken up, all he 
produced was a tin of breath mints. He shoved them back in, hoping nobody had noticed, and drew a hammer instead. 

One of the wolves padded forward. It was dragging a human-size statue by the leg. At the edge of the pool, the wolf opened its maw and dropped the 
statue for them to see — an ice sculpture of a girl, an archer with short spiky hair and a surprised look on her face. 

“Thalia!” Jason rushed forward, but Piper and Leo pulled him back. The ground around Thalia’s statue was already webbed with ice. Leo feared if 
Jason touched her, he might freeze too. 

“Who did this?” Jason yelled. His body crackled with electricity. “I’ll kill you myself!” 

From somewhere behind the monsters, Leo heard a girl’s laughter, clear and cold. She stepped out of the mist in her snowy white dress, a silver 
crown atop her long black hair. She regarded them with those deep brown eyes Leo had thought were so beautiful in Quebec. 

“Bon soir, mes amis,” said Khione, the goddess of snow. She gave Leo a frosty smile. “Alas, son of Hephaestus, you say you need time? I’m afraid 
time is one tool you do not have.” 




X L I X 



JASON 

After the rght on Mouisrr Diablo, Jason didn’t think he could ever feel more afraid or devastated. 

Now his sister was frozen at his feet. He was surrounded by monsters. He’d broken his golden sword and replaced it with a piece of wood. He had 
approximately five minutes until the king of the giants busted out and destroyed them. Jason had already pulled his biggest ace, calling down Zeus’s 
lightning when he’d fought Enceladus, and he doubted he’d have the strength or the cooperation from above to do it again. Which meant his only assets 
were one whiny imprisoned goddess, one sort-of girlfriend with a dagger, and Leo, who apparently thought he could defeat the armies of darkness with 
breath mints. 

On top of all this, Jason’s worst memories were flooding back. He knew for certain he’d done many dangerous things in his life, but he’d never been 
closer to death than he was right now. 

The enemy was beautiful. Khione smiled, her dark eyes glittering, as a dagger of ice grew in her hand. 

“What’ve you done?” Jason demanded. 

“Oh, so many things,” the snow goddess purred. “Nbur sister’s not dead, if that’s what you mean. She and her Hunters will make fine toys for our 
wolves. I thought we’d defrost them one at a time and hunt them down for amusement. Let them be the prey for once.” 

The wolves snarled appreciatively. 

“Nbs, my dears.” Khione kept her eyes on Jason. “Your sister almost killed their king, you know. Lycaon’s off in a cave somewhere, no doubt licking 
his wounds, but his minions have joined us to take revenge for their master. And soon Porphyrion will arise, and we shall rule the world.” 

“Traitor!” Hera shouted. “You meddlesome, D-list goddess! Nbu aren’t worthy to pour my wine, much less rule the world.” 

Khione sighed. “Tiresome as ever, Queen Hera. I've been wanting to shut you up for millennia.” 

Khione waved her hand, and ice encased the prison, sealing in the spaces between the earthen tendrils. 

“That’s better,” the snow goddess said. “Now, demigods, about your death — ” 

“Nbu’ re the one who tricked Hera into coming here,” Jason said. “Nbu gave Zeus the idea of closing Olympus.” 

The wolves snarled, and the storm spirits whinnied, ready to attack, but Khione held up her hand. “Patience, my loves. If he wants to talk, what 
matter? The sun is setting, and time is on our side. Of course, Jason Grace. Like snow, my voice is quiet and gentle, and very cold. It’s easy for me to 
whisper to the other gods, especially when I am only confirming their own deepest fears. I also whispered in Aeolus’s ear that he should issue an order to 
kill demigods. It is a small service for Gaea, but I’m sure I will be well rewarded when her sons the giants come to power.” 

“Nbu could’ve killed us in Quebec,” Jason said. “Why let us live?” 

Khione wrinkled her nose. “Messy business, killing you in my father’s house, especially when he insists on meeting all visitors. I did try, you 
remember. It would’ve been lovely if he’d agreed to turn you to ice. But once he’d given you guarantee of safe passage, I couldn’t openly disobey him. My 
father is an old fool. He lives in fear of Zeus and Aeolus, but he’s still powerful. Soon enough, when my new masters have awakened, I will depose Boreas 
and take the throne of the North Wind, but not just yet. Besides, my father did have a point. Nbur quest was suicidal. I fully expected you to fail.” 

“And to help us with that,” Leo said, “you knocked our dragon out of the sky over Detroit. Those frozen wires in his head — that was your fault. You’re 
gonna pay for that.” 

“Nbu’re also the one who kept Enceladus informed about us,” Piper added. “We’ve been plagued by snowstorms the whole trip.” 

“Nbs, I feel so close to all of you now!” Khione said. “Once you made it past Omaha, I decided to asked Lycaon to track you down so Jason could die 
here, at the Wolf House.” Khione smiled at him. “You see, Jason, your blood spilled on this sacred ground will taint it for generations. Your demigod 
brethren will be outraged, especially when they find the bodies of these two from Camp Half-Blood. They’ll believe the Greeks have conspired with giants. 
It will be ... delicious.” 

Piper and Leo didn’t seem to understand what she was saying. But Jason knew. His memories were returning enough for him to realize how 
dangerously effective Khione’s plan could be. 

“Nbu’ll set demigods against demigods,” he said. 

“It’s so easy!” said Khione. “As I told you, I only encourage what you would do anyway.” 

“But why?” Piper spread her hands. “Khione, you’ll tear the world apart. The giants will destroy everything. Nbu don’t want that. Call off your monsters.” 
Khione hesitated, then laughed. “Nbur persuasive powers are improving, girl. But I am a goddess. You can’t charm-speak me. We wind gods are 
creatures of chaos! I’ll overthrow Aeolus and let the storms run free. If we destroy the mortal world, all the better! They never honored me, even in Greek 
times. Humans and their talk of global warming. Pah! I’ll cool them down quickly enough. When we retake the ancient places, I will cover the Acropolis in 
snow.” 

“The ancient places.” Leo’s eyes widened. “That’s what Enceladus meant about destroy the roots of the gods. He meant Greece.” 

“Nbu could join me, son of Hephaestus,” Khione said. “I know you find me beautiful. It would be enough for my plan if these other two were to die. 
Reject that ridiculous destiny the Fates have given you. Live and be my champion, instead. Your skills would be quite useful.” 

Leo looked stunned. He glanced behind him, like Khione might be talking to somebody else. For a second Jason was worried. He figured Leo didn’t 
have beautiful goddesses make him offers like this every day. 

Then Leo laughed so hard, he doubled over. “Yeah, join you. Right. Until you get bored of me and turn me into a Leosicle? Lady, nobody messes with 
my dragon and gets away with it. I can’t believe I thought you were hot.” 

Khione’s face turned red. “Hot? You dare insult me? I am cold, Leo Valdez. Very, very cold.” 

She shot a blast of wintry sleet at the demigods, but Leo held up his hand. A wall of fire roared to life in front of them, and the snow dissolved in a 
steamy cloud. 

Leo grinned. “See, lady, that’s what happens to snow in Texas. It — freaking — melts.” 

Khione hissed. “Enough of this. Hera is failing. Porphyrion is rising. Kill the demigods. Let them be our king’s first meal!” 

Jason hefted his icy wooden plank — a stupid weapon to die fighting with — and the monsters charged. 



L 



JASON 

A WOLF LAUNCHED ITSELF AT Jason. He stepped back and swung his scrap wood into the beast’s snout with a satisfying crack. Maybe only silver could kill it, 
but a good old-fashioned board could still give it a Tylenol headache. 

He turned toward the sound of hooves and saw a storm spirit horse bearing down on him. Jason concentrated and summoned the wind. Just before 
the spirit could trample him, Jason launched himself into the air, grabbed the horse’s smoky neck, and pirouetted onto its back. 

The storm spirit reared. It tried to shake Jason, then tried to dissolve into mist to lose him; but somehow Jason stayed on. He willed the horse to 
remain in solid form, and the horse seemed unable to refuse. Jason could feel it fighting against him. He could sense its raging thoughts — complete 
chaos straining to break free. It took all Jason’s willpower to impose his own wishes and bring the horse under control. He thought about Aeolus, 
overseeing thousands and thousands of spirits like this, some much worse. No wonder the Master of the Winds had gone a little mad after centuries of 
that pressure. But Jason had only one spirit to master, and he had to win. 

“Nbu’re mine now,” Jason said. 

The horse bucked, but Jason held fast. Its mane flickered as it circled around the empty pool, its hooves causing miniature thunderstorms — tempests 
— whenever they touched . 

“Tempest?” Jason said. “Is that your name?” 

The horse spirit shook its mane, evidently pleased to be recognized. 

“Fine,” Jason said. “Now, let’s fight.” 

He charged into battle, swinging his icy piece of wood, knocking aside wolves and plunging straight through other venti. Tempest was a strong spirit, 
and every time he plowed through one of his brethren, he discharged so much electricity, the other spirit vaporized into a harmless cloud of mist. 

Through the chaos, Jason caught glimpses of his friends. Piper was surrounded by Earthborn, but she seemed to be holding her own. She was so 
impressive-looking as she fought, almost glowing with beauty, that the Earthborn stared at her in awe, forgetting that they were supposed to kill her. They’d 
lower their clubs and watch dumbfounded as she smiled and charged them. They’d smile back — until she sliced them apart with her dagger, and they 
melted into mounds of mud. 

Leo had taken on Khione herself. While fighting a goddess should’ve been suicide, Leo was the right man for the job. She kept summoning ice 
daggers to throw at him, blasts of winter air, tornadoes of snow. Leo burned through all of it. His whole body flickered with red tongues of flame like he’d 
been doused with gasoline. He advanced on the goddess, using two silver-tipped ball-peen hammers to smash any monsters that got in his way. 

Jason realized that Leo was the only reason they were still alive. His fiery aura was heating up the whole courtyard, countering Khione’s winter magic. 
Without him, they would’ve been frozen like the Hunters long ago. Wherever Leo went, ice melted off the stones. Even Thalia started to defrost a little 
when Leo stepped near her. 

Khione slowly backed away. Her expression went from enraged to shocked to slightly panicked as Leo got closer. 

Jason was running out of enemies. Wolves lay in dazed heaps. Some slunk away into the ruins, yelping from their wounds. Piper stabbed the last 
Earthborn, who toppled to the ground in a pile of sludge. Jason rode Tempest through the last ventus, breaking it into vapor. Then he wheeled around and 
saw Leo bearing down on the goddess of snow. 

“>bu’re too late,” Khione snarled. “He’s awake! And don’t think you’ve won anything here, demigods. Hera’s plan will never work. You’ll be at each 
other’s throats before you can ever stop us.” 

Leo set his hammers ablaze and threw them at the goddess, but she turned into snow — a white powdery image of herself. Leo’s hammers slammed 
into the snow woman, breaking it into a steaming mound of mush. 

Piper was breathing hard, but she smiled up at Jason. “Nice horse.” 

Tempest reared on his hind legs, arcing electricity across his hooves. A complete show-off. 

Then Jason heard a cracking sound behind him. The melting ice on Hera’s cage sloughed off in a curtain of slush, and the goddess called, “Oh, don’t 
mind me! Just the queen of the heavens, dying over here!” 

Jason dismounted and told Tempest to stay put. The three demigods jumped into the pool and ran to the spire. 

Leo frowned. “Uh, Tia Callida, are you getting shorter?” 

“No, you dolt! The earth is claiming me. Hurry!” 

As much as Jason disliked Hera, what he saw inside the cage alarmed him. Not only was Hera sinking, the ground was rising around her like water 
in a tank. Liquid rock had already covered her shins. “The giant wakes!” Hera warned. “Nt>u only have seconds!” 

“On it,” Leo said. “Piper, I need your help. Talk to the cage.” 

“What?” she said. 

“Talk to it. Use everything you’ve got. Convince Gaea to sleep. Lull her into a daze. Just slow her down, try to get the tendrils to loosen while I — ” 
“Right!” Piper cleared her throat and said, “Hey, Gaea. Nice night, huh? Boy, I’m tired. How about you? Ready for some sleep?” 

The more she talked, the more confident she sounded. Jason felt his own eyes getting heavy, and he had to force himself not to focus on her words. It 
seemed to have some effect on the cage. The mud was rising more slowly. The tendrils seemed to soften just a little — becoming more like tree root than 
rock. Leo pulled a circular saw out of his tool belt. How it fit in there, Jason had no idea. Then Leo looked at the cord and grunted in frustration. “I don’t 
have anywhere to plug it in!” 

The spirit horse Tempest jumped into the pit and whinnied. 

“Really?” Jason asked. 

Tempest dipped his head and trotted over to Leo. Leo looked dubious, but he held up the plug, and a breeze whisked it into the horse’s flank. 
Lighting sparked, connecting with the prongs of the plug, and the circular saw whirred to life. 

“Sweet!” Leo grinned. “Your horse comes with AC outlets!” 

Their good mood didn’t last long. On the other side of the pool, the giant’s spire crumbled with a sound like a tree snapping in half. Its outer sheath of 
tendrils exploded from the top down, raining stone and wood shards as the giant shook himself free and climbed out of the earth. 

Jason hadn’t thought anything could be scarier than Enceladus. 

He was wrong. 



Porphyrion was even taller, and even more ripped. He didn’t radiate heat, or show any signs of breathing fire, but there was something more terrible 
about him — a kind of strength, even magnetism, as if the giant were so huge and dense he had his own gravitational field. 

Like Enceladus, the giant king was humanoid from the waist up, clad in bronze armor, and from the waist down he had scaly dragon's legs; but his 
skin was the color of lima beans. His hair was green as summer leaves, braided in long locks and decorated with weapons — daggers, axes, and full-size 
swords, some of them bent and bloody — maybe trophies taken from demigods eons before. When the giant opened his eyes, they were blank white, like 
polished marble. He took a deep breath. 

“Alive!” he bellowed. “Praise to Gaea!” 

Jason made a heroic little whimpering sound he hoped his friends couldn’t hear. He was very sure no demigod could solo this guy. Porphyrion could 
lift mountains. He could crush Jason with one finger. 

“Leo,” Jason said. 

“Huh?” Leo’s mouth was wide open. Even Piper seemed dazed. 

“Nt>u guys keep working,” Jason said. “Get Hera free!” 

“What are you going to do?” Piper asked. “\bu can’t seriously — ” 

“Entertain a giant?” Jason said. “I’ve got no choice.” 

“Excellent!” the giant roared as Jason approached. “An appetizer! Who are you — Hermes? Ares?” 

Jason thought about going with that idea, but something told him not to. 

“I’m Jason Grace,” he said. “Son of Jupiter.” 

Those white eyes bored into him. Behind him, Leo’s circular saw whirred, and Piper talked to the cage in soothing tones, trying to keep the fear out 
of her voice. 

Porphyrion threw back his head and laughed. “Outstanding!” He looked up at the cloudy night sky. “So, Zeus, you sacrifice a son to me? The gesture 
is appreciated, but it will not save you.” 

The sky didn’t even rumble. No help from above. Jason was on his own. 

He dropped his makeshift club. His hands were covered in splinters, but that didn’t matter now. He had to buy Leo and Piper some time, and he 
couldn’t do that without a proper weapon. 

It was time to act a whole lot more confident than he felt. 

“If you knew who I was,” Jason yelled up at the giant, “you’d be worried about me, not my father. I hope you enjoyed your two and a half minutes of 
rebirth, giant, because I’m going to send you right back to Tartarus.” 

The giant’s eyes narrowed. He planted one foot outside the pool and crouched to get a better look at his opponent. “So ... we'll start by boasting, will 
we? Just like old times! Very well, demigod. I am Porphryion, king of the giants, son of Gaea. In olden times, I rose from Tatarus, the abyss of my father, to 
challenge the gods. To start the war, I stole Zeus’s queen.” He grinned at the goddess’s cage. “Hello, Hera.” 

“My husband destroyed you once, monster!” Hera said. “He’ll do it again!” 

“But he didn’t, my dear! Zeus wasn’t powerful enough to kill me. He had to rely on a puny demigod to help, and even then, we almost won. This time, 
we will complete what we started. Gaea is waking. She has provisioned us with many fine servants. Our armies will shake the earth — and we will destroy 
you at the roots.” 

“Nt>u wouldn’t dare,” Hera said, but she was weakening. Jason could hear it in her voice. Piper kept whispering to the cage, and Leo kept sawing, but 
the earth was still rising inside Hera’s prison, covering her up to her waist. 

“Oh, yes,” the giant said. “The Titans sought to attack your new home in New York. Bold, but ineffective. Gaea is wiser and more patient. And we, her 
greatest children, are much, much stronger than Kronos. We know how to kill you Olympians once and for all. You must be dug up completely like rotten 
trees — your eldest roots torn out and burned." 

The giant frowned at Piper and Leo, as if he’d just noticed them working at the cage. Jason stepped forward and yelled to get back Porphyrion’s 
attention. 

“Nt>u said a demigod killed you,” he shouted. “How, if we’re so puny?” 

“Ha! \bu think I would explain it to you? I was created to be Zeus’s replacement, born to destroy the lord of the sky. I shall take his throne. I shall take 
his wife — or, if she will not have me, I will let the earth consume her life force. What you see before you, child, is only my weakened form. I will grow 
stronger by the hour, until I am invincible. But I am already quite capable of smashing you to a grease spot!” 

He rose to his full height and held out his hand. A twenty-foot spear shot from the earth. He grasped it, then stomped the ground with his dragon’s 
feet. The ruins shook. All around the courtyard, monsters started to regather — storm spirits, wolves, and Earthborn, all answering the giant king’s call. 
“Great," Leo muttered. “We needed more enemies.” 

“Hurry,” Hera said. 

“I know!” Leo snapped. 

“Go to sleep, cage,” Piper said. “Nice, sleepy cage. Yes, I’m talking to a bunch of earthen tendrils. This isn't weird at all.” 

Porphyrion raked his spear across the top of the ruins, destroying a chimney and spraying wood and stone across the courtyard. “So, child of Zeus! I 
have finished my boasting. Now it’s your turn. What were you saying about destroying me?” 

Jason looked at the ring of monsters, waiting impatiently for their master’s order to tear them to shreds. Leo’s circular saw kept whirring, and Piper 
kept talking, but it seemed hopeless. Hera’s cage was almost completely filled with earth. 

“I’m the son of Jupiter!” he shouted, and just for effect, he summoned the winds, rising a few feet off the ground. “I’m a child of Rome, consul to 
demigods, praetor of the First Legion.” Jason didn’t know quite what he was saying, but he rattled off the words like he’d said them many times before. 
He held out his arms, showing the tattoo of the eagle and SPQR, and to his surprise the giant seemed to recognize it. 

For a moment, Porphyrion actually looked uneasy. 

“I slew the Trojan sea monster,” Jason continued. “I toppled the black throne of Kronos, and destroyed the Titan Krios with my own hands. And now I’m 
going to destroy you, Porphyrion, and feed you to your own wolves.” 

“Wow, dude,” Leo muttered. “\bu been eating red meat?” 

Jason launched himself at the giant, determined to tear him apart. 

The idea of fighting a forty-foot-tall immortal bare handed was so ridiculous, even the giant seemed surprised. Half flying, half leaping, Jason landed on 
the giant’s scaly reptilian knee and climbed up the giant’s arm before Porphyrion even realized what had happened. 

“Nt>u dare?” the giant bellowed. 

Jason reached his shoulders and ripped a sword out of the giant’s weapon-filled braids. He yelled, “For Rome!” and drove the sword into the nearest 
convenient target — the giant’s massive ear. 




Lightning streaked out of the sky and blasted the sword, throwing Jason free. He rolled when he hit the ground. When he looked up, the giant was 
staggering. His hair was on fire, and the side of his face was blackened from lightning. The sword had splintered in his ear. Golden ichor ran down his jaw. 
The other weapons were sparking and smoldering in his braids. 

Porphyrion almost fell. The circle of monsters let out a collective growl and moved forward — wolves and ogres fixing their eyes on Jason. 

“No!” Porphyrion yelled. He regained his balance and glared at the demigod. “I will kill him myself.” 

The giant raised his spear and it began to glow. “Nt>u want to play with lightning, boy? Nt>u forget. I am the bane of Zeus. I was created to destroy your 
father, which means I know exactly what will kill you.” 

Something in Porphyrion’s voice told Jason he wasn’t bluffing. 

Jason and his friends had had a good run. The three of them had done amazing things. Yeah, even heroic things. But as the giant raised his spear, 
Jason knew there was no way he could deflect this strike. 

This was the end. 

“Got it!” Leo yelled. 

“Sleep!” Piper said, so forcefully, the nearest wolves fell to the ground and began snoring. 

The stone and wood cage crumbled. Leo had sawed through the base of the thickest tendril and apparently cut off the cage’s connection to Gaea. 
The tendrils turned to dust. The mud around Hera disintegrated. The goddess grew in size, glowing with power. 

“Nfes!” the goddess said. She threw off her black robes to reveal a white gown, her arms bedecked with golden jewelry. Her face was both terrible and 
beautiful, and a golden crown glowed in her long black hair. “Now I shall have my revenge!” 

The giant Porphyrion backed away. He said nothing, but he gave Jason one last look of hatred. His message was clear: Another time. Then he 
slammed his spear against the earth, and the giant disappeared into the ground like he’d dropped down a chute. 

Around the courtyard, monsters began to panic and retreat, but there was no escape for them. 

Hera glowed brighter. She shouted, “Cover your eyes, my heroes!” 

But Jason was too much in shock. He understood too late. 

He watched as Hera turned into a supernova, exploding in a ring offeree that vaporized every monster instantly. Jason fell, light searing into his mind, 
and his last thought was that his body was burning. 




L I 



PIPER 



“JASON!” 

Piper kept calling his name as she held him, though she’d almost lost hope. He’d been unconscious for two minutes now. His body was steaming, his 
eyes rolled back in his head. She couldn’t tell if he was even breathing. 

“It’s no use, child.” Hera stood over them in her simple black robes and shawl. 

Piper hadn’t seen the goddess go nuclear. Thankfully she’d closed her eyes, but she could see the aftereffects. Every vestige of winter was gone 
from the valley. No signs of battle, either. The monsters had been vaporized. The ruins had been restored to what they were before — still ruins, but with no 
evidence that they’d been overrun by a horde of wolves, storm spirits, and six-armed ogres. 

Even the Hunters had been revived. Most waited at a respectful distance in the meadow, but Thalia knelt by Piper’s side, her hand on Jason’s 
forehead. 

Thalia glared up at the goddess. “This is your fault. Do something!” 

“Do not address me that way, girl. I am the queen — ” 

“Fix him!” 

Hera’s eyes flickered with power. “I did warn him. I would never intentionally hurt the boy. He was to be my champion. I told them to close their eyes 
before I revealed my true form.” 

“Urn ...” Leo frowned. “True form is bad, right? So why did you do it?” 

“I unleashed my power to help you, fool!” Hera cried. “I became pure energy so I could disintegrate the monsters, restore this place, and even save 
these miserable Hunters from the ice.” 

“But mortals can’t look upon you in that form!” Thalia shouted. “You’ve killed him!” 

Leo shook his head in dismay. “That’s what our prophecy meant. Death unleash, through Hera’s rage. Come on, lady. You’re a goddess. Do some 
voodoo magic on him! Bring him back.” 

Piper half heard their conversation, but mostly she was focused on Jason’s face. “He’s breathing!” she announced. 

“Impossible,” Hera said. “I wish it were true, child, but no mortal has ever — ” 

“Jason,” Piper called, putting every bit of her willpower into his name. She could not lose him. “Listen to me. You can do this. Come back. You’re 
going to be fine.” 

Nothing happened. Had she imagined his breath stirring? 

“Healing is not a power of Aphrodite,” Hera said regretfully. “Even I cannot fix this, girl. His mortal spirit — ■” 

“Jason,” Piper said again, and she imagined her voice resonating through the earth, all the way down to the Underworld. “Wake up.” 

He gasped, and his eyes flew open. For a moment they were full of light — glowing pure gold. Then the light faded and his eyes were normal again. 
“What — what happened?” 

“Impossible!” Hera said. 

Piper wrapped him in a hug until he groaned, “Crushing me.” 

“Sorry,” she said, so relieved, she laughed while wiping a tear from her eye. 

Thalia gripped her brother’s hand. “How do you feel?” 

“Hot,” he muttered. “Mouth is dry. And I saw something... really terrible.” 

“That was Hera,” Thalia grumbled. “Her Majesty, the Loose Cannon." 

“That’s it, Thalia Grace,” said the goddess. “I will turn you into an aardvark, so help me — ” 

“Stop it, you two,” Piper said. Amazingly, they both shut up. 

Piper helped Jason to his feet and gave him the last nectar from their supplies. 

“Now . Piper faced Thalia and Hera. “Hera — >bur Majesty — we couldn’t have rescued you without the Hunters. And Thalia, you never would’ve seen 
Jason again — / wouldn’t have met him — if it weren’t for Hera. You two make nice, because we’ve got bigger problems.” 

They both glared at her, and for three long seconds, Piper wasn’t sure which one of them was going to kill her first. 

Finally Thalia grunted. “You’ve got spirit, Piper.” She pulled a silver card from her parka and tucked it into the pocket of Piper’s snowboarding jacket. 
“\bu ever want to be a Hunter, call me. We could use you.” 

Hera crossed her arms. “Fortunately for this Hunter, you have a point, daughter of Aphrodite.” She assessed Piper, as if seeing her clearly for the 
time. “>bu wondered, Piper, why I chose you for this quest, why I didn’t reveal your secret in the beginning, even when I knew Enceladus was using you. I 
must admit, until this moment I was not sure. Something told me you would be vital to the quest. Now I see I was right. >bu’re even stronger than I realized. 
And you are correct about the dangers to come. We must work together.” 

Piper’s face felt warm. She wasn’t sure howto respond to Hera’s compliment, but Leo stepped in. 

“>feah,” he said, “I don’t suppose that Porphyrion guy just melted and died, huh?” 

“No,” Hera agreed. “By saving me, and saving this place, you prevented Gaea from waking. Nt>u have bought us some time. But Porphyrion has risen. 
He simply knew better than to stay here, especially since he has not yet regained his full power. Giants can only be killed by a combination of god and 
demigod, working together. Once you freed me — ” 

“He ran away,” Jason said. “But to where?” 

Hera didn’t answer, but a sense of dread washed over Piper. She remembered what Porphyrion had said about killing the Olympians by pulling up 
their roots. Greece. She looked at Thalia’s grim expression, and guessed the Hunter had come to the same conclusion. 

“I need to find Annabeth,” Thalia said. “She has to know what’s happened here.” 

“Thalia ...” Jason gripped her hand. “We never got to talk about this place, or — ” 

“I know.” Her expression softened. “I lost you here once. I don't want to leave you again. But we’ll meet soon. I'll rendezvous with you back at Camp 
Half-Blood.” She glanced at Hera. “You’ll see them there safely? It’s the least you can do.” 

“It’s not your place to tell me — ” 

“Queen Hera,” Piper interceded. 



The goddess sighed. “Fine. Yes. Just off with you, Hunter!” 

Thalia gave Jason a hug and said her good-byes. When the Hunters were gone, the courtyard seemed strangely quiet. The dry reflecting pool 
showed no sign of the earthen tendrils that had brought back the giant king or imprisoned Hera. The night sky was clear and starry. The wind rustled in the 
redwoods. Piper thought about that night in Oklahoma when she and her dad had slept in Grandpa Tom’s front yard. She thought about the night on the 
Wilderness School dorm roof, when Jason had kissed her — in her Mist-altered memories, anyway. 

“Jason, what happened to you here?” she asked. “I mean — I know your mom abandoned you here. But you said it was sacred ground for demigods. 
Why? What happened after you were on your own?” 

Jason shook his head uneasily. “It’s still murky. The wolves ..." 

“Nt>u were given a destiny,” Hera said. “You were given into my service.” 

Jason scowled. “Because you forced my mom to do that. You couldn’t stand knowing Zeus had two children with my mom. Knowing that he’d fallen for 
her fwce. I was the price you demanded for leaving the rest of my family alone. ’’ 

“It was the right choice for you as well, Jason,” Hera insisted. “The second time your mother managed to snare Zeus’s affections, it was because she 
imagined him in a different aspect — the aspect of Jupiter. Never before had this happened — two children, Greek and Roman, born into the same family. 
\bu had to be separated from Thalia. This is where all demigods of your kind start their journey.” 

“Of his kind?” Piper asked. 

“She means Roman,” Jason said. “Demigods are left here. We meet the she-wolf goddess, Lupa, the same immortal wolf that raised Romulus and 
Remus.” 

Hera nodded. “And if you are strong enough, you live.” 

“But ...” Leo looked mystified. “What happened after that? I mean, Jason never made it to camp.” 

“Not to Camp Half-Blood, no,” Hera agreed. 

Piper felt as if the sky were spiraling above her, making her dizzy. “>bu went somewhere else. That’s where you’ve been all these years. Somewhere 
else for demigods — but where?” 

Jason turned to the goddess. “The memories are coming back, but not the location. Ntiu’re not going to tell me, are you?" 

“No,” Hera said. “That is part of your destiny, Jason. Nt>u must find your own way back. But when you do ... you will unite two great powers. You will 
give us hope against the giants, and more importantly — against Gaea herself.” 

“Nt>u want us to help you,” Jason said, “but you’re holding back information.” 

“Giving you answers would make those answers invalid," Hera said. “That is the way of the Fates. You must forge your own path for it to mean 
anything. Already, you three have surprised me. I would not have thought it possible . 

The goddess shook her head. “Suffice to say, you have performed well, demigods. But this is only the beginning. Now you must return to Camp Half- 
Blood, where you will begin planning for the next phase.” 

“Which you won’t tell us about,” Jason grumped. “And I suppose you destroyed my nice storm spirit horse, so we’ll have to walk home?” 

Hera waved aside the question. “Storm spirits are creatures of chaos. I did not destroy that one, though I have no idea where he went, or whether 
you’ll see him again. But there is an easier way home for you. As you have done me a great service, so I can help you — at least this once. Farewell, 
demigods, for now.” 

The world turned upside down, and Piper almost blacked out. 

When she could see straight again, she was back at camp, in the dining pavilion, in the middle of dinner. They were standing on the Aphrodite cabin’s 
table, and Piper had one foot in Drew’s pizza. Sixty campers rose at once, gawking at them in astonishment. 

Whatever Hera had done to shoot them across the country, it wasn’t good for Piper’s stomach. She could barely control her nausea. Leo wasn't so 
lucky. He jumped off the table, ran to the nearest bronze brazier, and threw up in it — which was probably not a great burnt offering for the gods. 

“Jason?” Chiron trotted forward. No doubt the old centaur had seen thousands of years’ worth of weird stuff, but even he looked totally flabbergasted. 
“What — How — ?” 

The Aphrodite campers stared up at Piper with their mouths open. Piper figured she must look awful. 

“Hi,” she said, as casually as she could. “We’re back.” 




L I I 



PIPER 



Piper DIDN’T remb/iber much aboitt the rest of the night. They told their story and answered a million questions from the other campers, but finally Chiron saw 
how tired they were and ordered them to bed. 

It felt so good to sleep on a real mattress, and Piper was so exhausted, she crashed immediately, which spared her any worry about what it would be 
like returning to the Aphrodite cabin. 

The next morning she woke in her bunk, feeling reinvigorated. The sun came through the windows along with a pleasant breeze. It might’ve been 
spring instead of winter. Birds sang. Monsters howled in the woods. Breakfast smells wafted from the dining pavilion — bacon, pancakes, and all sorts of 
wonderful things. 

Drew and her gang were frowning down at her, their arms crossed. 

“Morning.” Piper sat up and smiled. “Beautiful day.” 

“>bu’re going to make us late for breakfast,” Drew said, “which means you get to clean the cabin for inspection.” 

A week ago, Piper would’ve either punched Drew in the face, or hidden back under her covers. Now she thought about the Cyclopes in Detroit, 
Medea in Chicago, Midas turning her to gold in Omaha. Looking at Drew, who used to bother her, Piper laughed. 

Drew’s smug expression crumbled. She backed up, then remembered she was supposed to be angry. “What are you — ” 

“Challenging you,” Piper said. “How about noon in the arena? You can choose the weapons.” 

She got out of bed, stretched leisurely, and beamed at her cabinmates. She spotted Mitchell and Lacy, who’d helped her pack for the quest. They 
were smiling tentatively, their eyes flitting from Piper to Drew like this might be a very interesting tennis game. 

“I missed you guys!” Piper announced. “We’re going to have a great time when I’m senior counselor.” 

Drew turned bug juice red. Even her closest lieutenants looked a little nervous. This wasn’t in their script. 

“>bu — ” Drew spluttered. “\bu ugly little witch! I’ve been here the longest. Nt>u can’t just — ” 

“Challenge you?” Piper said. “Sure, I can. Camp rules: I’ve been claimed by Aphrodite. I’ve completed a quest, which is one more than you've 
completed. If I feel I can do a better job, I can challenge you. Unless you just want to step down. Did I get all that right, Mitchell?” 

“Just right, Piper.” Mitchell was grinning. Lacy was bouncing up and down like she was trying to achieve liftoff. 

Afew ofthe other kids started to grin, as if they were enjoying the different colors Drew’s face was turning. 

“Step dow 7?” Drew shrieked. “You’re crazy!” 

Piper shrugged. Then fast as a viper she pulled Katoptris from under her pillow, unsheathed the dagger, and thrust the point under Drew’s chin. 
Everybody else backed up fast. One guy crashed into a makeup table and sent up a plume of pink powder. 

“A duel, then,” Piper said cheerfully. “If you don’t want to wait until noon, now is fine, 'rbu’ve turned this cabin into a dictatorship, Drew. Silena 
Beauregard knew better than that. Aphrodite is about love and beauty. Being loving. Spreadingbeauty. Good friends. Good times. Good deeds. Not just 
looking good. Silena made mistakes, but in the end she stood by her friends. That’s why she was a hero. I’m going to set things right, and I’ve got a 
feeling Mom will be on my side. Want to find out?” 

Drew went cross-eyed looking down the blade of Piper’s dagger. 

A second passed. Then two. Piper didn’t care. She was absolutely happy and confident. It must’ve shown in her smile. 

“I ... step down,” Drew grumbled. “But if you think I’m ever going to forget this, McLean—” 

“Oh, I hope you won’t,” Piper said. “Now, run along to the dining pavilion, and explain to Chiron why we’re late. There’s been a change of leadership.” 
Drew backed to the door. Even her closest lieutenants didn’t follow her. She was about to leave when Piper said, “Oh, and Drew, honey?” 

The former counselor looked back reluctantly. 

“In case you think I’m not a true daughter of Aphrodite,” Piper said, “don’t even look at Jason Grace. He may not know it yet, but he’s mine. If you 
even try to make a move, I will load you into a catapult and shoot you across Long Island Sound.” 

Drew turned around so fast, she ran into the doorframe. Then she was gone. 

The cabin was silent. The other campers stared at Piper. This was the part she was unsure of. She didn’t want to rule by fear. She wasn’t like Drew, 
but she didn’t know if they’d accept her. 

Then, spontaneously, the Aphrodite campers cheered so loudly, they must’ve been heard all across camp. They herded Piper out ofthe cabin, raised 
her on their shoulders, and carried her all the way to the dining pavilion — still in her pajamas, her hair still a mess, but she didn’t care. She’d never felt 
better. 

By afternoon, Piper had changed into comfortable camp clothes and led the Aphrodite cabin through their morning activities. She was ready for free time. 
Some ofthe buzz of her victory had faded because she had an appointment at the Big House. 

Chiron met her on the front porch in human form, compacted into his wheelchair. “Come inside, my dear. The video conference is ready.” 

The only computer at camp was in Chiron’s office, and the whole room was shielded in bronze plating. 

“Demigods and technology don’t mix,” Chiron explained. “Phone calls, texting, even browsing the Internet — all these things can attract monsters. Why, 
just this fall at a school in Cincinnati, we had to rescue a young hero who Googled the gorgons and got a little more than he bargained for, but never mind 
that. Here at camp, you’re protected. Still ... we try to be cautious. \bu’ll only be able to talk for a few minutes.” 

“Got it,” Piper said. “Thank you, Chiron.” 

He smiled and wheeled himself out ofthe office. Piper hesitated before clicking the call button. Chiron's office had a cluttered, cozy feel. One wall 
was covered with T-shirts from different conventions — party ponies ’09 vegas, party ponies ’10 honolulu, et cetera. Piper didn’t know who the Party 
Ponies were, but judging from the stains, scorch marks, and weapon holes in the T-shirts, they must’ve had some pretty wild meetings. On the shelf over 
Chiron’s desk sat an old-fashioned boom box with cassette tapes labeled “Dean Martin” and “Frank Sinatra” and “Greatest Hits ofthe 40s.” Chiron was 
so old, Piper wondered if that meant 1940s, 1840s, or maybe just AD. 40. 

But most of the office’s wall space was plastered with photos of demigods, like a hall of fame. One of the newer shots showed a teenage guy with 
dark hair and green eyes. Since he stood arm in arm with Annabeth, Piper assumed the guy must be Percy Jackson. In some of the older photos, she 
recognized famous people: businessmen, athletes, even some actors that her dad knew. 



“Unbelievable,” she muttered. 

Piper wondered if her photo would go on that wall someday. For the first time, she felt like she was part of something bigger than herself. Demigods 
had been around for centuries. Whatever she did, she did for all of them. 

She took a deep breath and made the call. The video screen popped up. 

Gleeson Hedge grinned at her from her dad’s office. “Seen the news?” 

“Kind of hard to miss,” Piper said. “I hope you know what you’ re doing.” 

Chiron had shown her a newspaper at lunch. Her dad’s mysterious return from nowhere had made the front page. His personal assistant Jane had 
been fired for covering up his disappearance and failing to notify the police. A new staff had been hired and personally vetted by Tristan McLean’s “life 
coach,” Gleeson Hedge. According to the paper, Mr. McLean claimed to have no memory of the last week, and the media was totally eating up the story. 
Some thought it was a clever marketing ploy for a movie — maybe McLean was going to play an amnesiac? Some thought he’d been kidnapped by 
terrorists, or rabid fans, or had heroically escaped from ransom seekers using his incredible King of Sparta fighting skills. Whatever the truth, Tristan 
McLean was more famous than ever. 

“It’s going great,” Hedge promised. “But don’t worry. We’re going to keep him out of the public eye for the next month or so until things cool down, 
"four dad’s got more important things to do — like resting, and talking to his daughter.” 

“Don’t get too comfortable out there in Hollywood, Gleeson,” Piper said. 

Hedge snorted. “You kidding? These people make Aeolus look sane. I’ll be back as soon as I can, but your dad’s gotta get back on his feet first. He’s 
a good guy. Oh, and by the way, I took care of that other little matter. The Park Service in the Bay Area just got an anonymous gift of a new helicopter. And 
that ranger pilot who helped us? She’s got a very lucrative offer to fly for Mr. McLean.” 

“Thanks, Gleeson,” Piper said. “For everything.” 

“Nfeah, well. I don’t try to be awesome. It just comes natural. Speaking of Aeolus’s place, meet your dad’s new assistant.” 

Hedge was nudged out of the way, and a pretty young lady grinned into the camera. 

“Mellie?” Piper stared, but it was definitely her: the aura who’d helped them escape from Aeolus’s fortress. “You’re working for my dad now?” 

“Isn’t it great?” 

“Does he know you’re a — you know — wind spirit?” 

“Oh, no. But I love this job. It’s — urn — a breeze.” 

Piper couldn’t help but laugh. “I’m glad. That’s awesome. But where — ” 

“Just a sec.” Mellie kissed Gleeson on the cheek. “Come on, you old goat. Stop hogging the screen.” 

“What?” Hedge demanded. But Mellie steered him away and called, “Mr. McLean? She’s on!” 

A second later, Piper’s dad appeared. 

He broke into a huge grin. “Pipes!” 

He looked great — back to normal, with his sparkling brown eyes, his half-day beard, his confident smile, and his newly trimmed hair like he was 
ready to shoot a scene. Piper was relieved, but she also felt a little sad. Back to normal wasn’t necessarily what she’d wanted. 

In her mind, she started the clock. On a normal call like this, on a workday, she hardly ever got her dad’s attention for longer than thirty seconds. 

“Hey,” she said weakly. “\bu feeling okay?” 

“Honey, I’m so sorry to worry you with this disappearance business. I don’t know ...” His smile wavered, and she could tell he was trying to remember 
— grasping fora memory that should have been there, but wasn’t. “I’m not sure what happened, honestly. But I’m fine. Coach Hedge has been a godsend.” 
“A godsend,” she repeated. Funny choice of words. 

“He told me about your new school,” Dad said. “I’m sorry the Wilderness School didn’t work out, but you were right. Jane was wrong. I was a fool to 
listen to her.” 

Ten seconds left, maybe. But at least her dad sounded sincere, like he really did feel remorseful. 

“Nt>u don’t remember anything?” she said, a bit wistfully. 

“Of course I do,” he said. 

A chill went down her neck. “Nt>u do?” 

“I remember that I love you,” he said. “And I’m proud of you. Are you happy at your new school?” 

Piper blinked. She wasn’t going to cry now. After all she’d been through, that would be ridiculous. “Yeah, Dad. It’s more like a camp, not a school, but 
. . . Yeah, I think I’ll be happy here.” 

“Call me as often as you can,” he said. “And come home for Christmas. And Pipes ...” 

“Yes?” 

He touched the screen as if trying to reach through with his hand. “\fc>u’re a wonderful young lady. I don’t tell you that often enough. You remind me so 
much of your mother. She’d be proud. And Grandpa Tom” — he chuckled — “he always said you’d be the most powerful voice in our family. \bu’re going to 
outshine me some day, you know. They’re going to remember me as Piper McLean’s father, and that’s the best legacy I can imagine.” 

Piper tried to answer, but she was afraid she’d break down. She just touched his fingers on the screen and nodded. 

Mellie said something in the background, and her dad sighed. “Studio calling. I’m sorry, honey.” And he did sound genuinely annoyed to go. 

“It’s okay, Dad,” she managed. “Love you.” 

He winked. Then the video call went black. 

Forty-five seconds? Maybe a full minute. 

Piper smiled. A small improvement, but it was progress. 

At the commons area, she found Jason relaxing on a bench, a basketball between his feet. He was sweaty from working out, but he looked great in his 
orange tank top and shorts. His various scars and bruises from the quest were healing, thanks to some medical attention from the Apollo cabin. His arms 
and legs were well muscled and tan — distracting as always. His close-cropped blond hair caught the afternoon light so it looked like it was turning to gold, 
Midas style. 

“Hey,” he said. “How did it go?” 

It took her a second to focus on his question. “Hmm? Oh, yeah. Fine.” 

She sat next to him and they watched the campers going back and forth. A couple of Demeter girls were playing tricks on two of the Apollo guys 
— making grass grow around their ankles as they shot baskets. Over at the camp store, the Hermes kids were putting up a sign that read: flying shoes, 
slightly used, 50% off today! Ares kids were lining their cabin with fresh barbed wire. The Hypnos cabin was snoring away. A normal day at camp. 

Meanwhile, the Aphrodite kids were watching Piper and Jason, and trying to pretend they weren’t. Piper was pretty sure she saw money change 
hands, like they were placing bets on a kiss. 

“Get any sleep?” she asked him. 

He looked at her as if she’d been reading his thoughts. “Not much. Dreams.” 




“About your past?” 

He nodded. 

She didn’t push him. If he wanted to talk, that was fine, but she knew him better than to press the subject. She didn’t even worry that her knowledge of 
him was mostly based on three months of false memories. You can sense possibilities, her mother had said. And Piper was determined to make those 
possibilities a reality. 

Jason spun his basketball. “It’s not good news,” he warned. “My memories aren’t good for — for any of us." 

Piper was pretty sure he’d been about to say for us — as in the two of them, and she wondered if he’d remembered a girl from his past. But she didn’t 
let it bother her. Not on a sunny winter day like this, with Jason next to her. 

“We’ll figure it out,” she promised. 

He looked at her hesitantly, like he wanted very much to believe her. “Annabeth and Rachel are coming in for the meeting tonight. I should probably 
wait until then to explain . . .” 

“Okay.” She plucked a blade of grass by her foot. She knew there were dangerous things in store for both of them. She would have to compete with 
Jason's past, and they might not even survive their war against the giants. But right now, they were both alive, and she was determined to enjoy this 
moment. 

Jason studied her warily. His forearm tattoo was faint blue in the sunlight. “You're in a good mood. How can you be so sure things will work out?” 

“Because you’re going to lead us,” she said simply. “I’d follow you anywhere.” 

Jason blinked. Then slowly, he smiled. “Dangerous thing to say." 

“I’m a dangerous girl.” 

“That, I believe.” 

He got up and brushed off his shorts. He offered her a hand. “Leo says he’s got something to show us out in the woods. \t>u coming?” 

“Wouldn’t miss it.” She took his hand and stood up. 

For a moment, they kept holding hands. Jason tilted his head. “We should get going.” 

“Nfep,” she said. “Just a sec.” 

She let go of his hand, and took a card from her pocket — the silver calling card that Thalia had given her for the Hunters of Artemis. She dropped it 
into a nearby eternal fire and watched it burn. There would be no breaking hearts in Aphrodite cabin from now on. That was one rite of passage they didn’t 
need. 

Across the green, her cabinmates looking disappointed that they hadn't witnessed a kiss. They started cashing in their bets. 

But that was all right. Piper was patient, and she could see lots of good possibilities. 

“Let’s go,” she told Jason. “We’ve got adventures to plan.” 




I 



L 1 1 



LEO 

Leo HADN’T FELT THIS JUMPY SINCE HE offered tofu burgers to the werewolves. When he got to the limestone cliff in the forest, he turned to the group and smiled 
nervously. “Here we go.” 

He willed his hand to catch fire, and set it against the door. 

His cabinmates gasped. 

“Leo!” Nyssa cried. “\fou’re a fire user!" 

“>feah, thanks,” he said. “I know.” 

Jake Mason, who was out of his body cast but still on crutches, said, “Holy Hephaestus. That means — it’s so rare that — ” 

The massive stone door swung open, and everyone’s mouth dropped. Leo’s flaming hand seemed insignificant now. Even Piper and Jason looked 
stunned, and they’d seen enough amazing things lately. 

Only Chiron didn’t look surprised. The centaur knit his bushy eyebrows and stroked his beard, as if the group was about to walk through a minefield. 
That made Leo even more nervous, but he couldn’t change his mind now. His instincts told him he was meant to share this place — at least with the 
Hephaestus cabin — and he couldn’t hide it from Chiron or his two best friends. 

“Welcome to Bunker Nine,” he said, as confidently as he could. “C’mon in.” 

The group was silent as they toured the facility. Everything was just as Leo had left it — giant machines, worktables, old maps and schematics. Only one 
thing had changed. Festus’s head was sitting on the central table, still battered and scorched from his final crash in Omaha. 

Leo went over to it, a bitter taste in his mouth, and stroked the dragon’s forehead. “I’m sorry, Festus. But I won’t forget you.” 

Jason put a hand on Leo’s shoulder. “Hephaestus brought it here for you?” 

Leo nodded. 

“But you can’t repair him," Jason guessed. 

“No way,” Leo said. “But the head is going to be reused. Festus will be going with us.” 

Piper came over and frowned. “What do you mean?” 

Before Leo could answer, Nyssa cried out, “Guys, look at this!” 

She was standing at one of the worktables, flipping through a sketchbook — diagrams for hundreds of different machines and weapons. 

“I’ve never seen anything like these,” Nyssa said. “There are more amazing ideas here than in Daedalus’s workshop. It would take a century just to 
prototype them all.” 

“Who built this place?” Jake Mason said. “And why?” 

Chiron stayed silent, but Leo focused on the wall map he’d seen during his first visit. It showed Camp Half-Blood with a line of triremes in the Sound, 
catapults mounted in the hills around the valley, and spots marked for traps, trenches, and ambush sites. 

“It’s a wartime command center,” he said. “The camp was attacked once, wasn't it?” 

“In the Titan War?” Piper asked. 

Nyssa shook her head. “No. Besides, that map looks really old. The date ... does that say 1864?” 

They all turned to Chiron. 

The centaur’s tail swished fretfully. “This camp has been attacked many times,” he admitted. “That map is from the last Civil War.” 

Apparently, Leo wasn’t the only one confused. The other Hephaestus campers looked at each other and frowned. 

“Civil War ..." Piper said. “\bu mean the American Civil War, like a hundred and fifty years ago?” 

“>fes and no,” Chiron said. “The two conflicts — mortal and demigod — mirrored each other, as they usually do in Western history. Look at any civil war 
or revolution from the fall of Rome onward, and it marks a time when demigods also fought one another. But that Civil War was particularly horrible. For 
American mortals, it is still their bloodiest conflict of all time — worse than their casualties in the two World Wars. For demigods, it was equally devastating. 
Even back then, this valley was Camp Half-Blood. There was a horrible battle in these woods lasting for days, with terrible losses on both sides." 

“Both sides,” Leo said. “You mean the camp split apart?” 

“No,” Jason spoke up. “He means two different groups. Camp Half-Blood was one side in the war.” 

Leo wasn’t sure he wanted an answer, but he asked, “Who was the other?” 

Chiron glanced up at the tattered bunker 9 banner, as if remembering the day it was raised. 

“The answer is dangerous,” he warned. “It is something I swore upon the River Styx never to speak of. After the American Civil War, the gods were so 
horrified by the toll it took on their children, that they swore it would never happen again. The two groups were separated. The gods bent all their will, wove 
the Mist as tightly as they could, to make sure the enemies never remembered each other, never met on their quests, so that bloodshed could be avoided. 
This map is from the final dark days of 1864, the last time the two groups fought. We’ve had several close calls since then. The nineteen sixties were 
particularly dicey. But we’ve managed to avoid another civil war — at least so far. Just as Leo guessed, this bunker was a command center for the 
Hephaestus cabin. In the last century, it has been reopened a few times, usually as a hiding place in times of great unrest. But coming here is dangerous. 
It stirs old memories, awakens the old feuds. Even when the Titans threatened last year, I did not think it worth the risk to use this place.” 

Suddenly Leo’s sense of triumph turned to guilt. “Hey, look, this place found me. It was meant to happen. It’s a good thing.” 

“I hope you’re right,” Chiron said. 

“I am!” Leo pulled the old drawing out of his pocket and spread it on the table for everyone to see. 

“There,” he said proudly. “Aeolus returned that to me. I drew it when I was five. That’s my destiny.” 

Nyssa frowned. “Leo, it’s a crayon drawing of a boat.” 

“Look.” He pointed at the largest schematic on the bulletin board — the blueprint showing a Greek trireme. Slowly, his cabinmates’ eyes widened as 
they compared the two designs. The number of masts and oars, even the decorations on the shields and sails were exactly the same as on Leo’s 
drawing. 

“That’s impossible,” Nyssa said. “That blueprint has to be a century old at least.” 

“Prophecy — Unclear — Flight,’’ Jake Mason read from the notes on the blueprint. “It’s a diagram for a flying ship. Look, that’s the landing gear. And 



weaponry — Holy Hephaestus: rotating ballista, mounted crossbows, Celestial bronze plating. That thing would be one spankin’ hot war machine. Was it 
ever made?” 

“Not yet,” Leo said. “Look at the masthead.” 

There was no doubt — the figure at the front of the ship was the head of a dragon. A very particular dragon. 

“Festus,” Piper said. Everyone turned and looked at the dragon’s head sitting on the table. 

“He’s meant to be our masthead,” Leo said. “Our good luck charm, our eyes at sea. I’m supposed to build this ship. 

I’m gonna call it the Argo II. And guys, I’ll need your help.” 

“The Argo II.” Piper smiled. “After Jason’s ship.” 

Jason looked a little uncomfortable, but he nodded. “Leo’s right. That ship is just what we need for our journey.” 

“What journey?” Nyssa said. “You just got back!” 

Piper ran her fingers over the old crayon drawing. “We've got to confront Porphyrion, the giant king. He said he would destroy the gods at their roots.” 

“Indeed,” Chiron said. “Much of Rachel’s Great Prophecy is still a mystery to me, but one thing is clear. \bu three — Jason, Piper, and Leo — are 
among the seven demigods who must take on that quest. >bu must confront the giants in their homeland, where they are strongest. \t>u must stop them 
before they can wake Gaea fully, before they destroy Mount Olympus.” 

“Urn ...” Nyssa shifted. “You don't mean Manhattan, do you?” 

“No,” Leo said. “The original Mount Olympus. We have to sail to Greece.” 




L I V 



LEO 



It took a fbn minutes for that to settle in. Then the other Hephaestus campers started asking questions 
How long would it take to build the boat? Why didn’t everyone get to go to Greece? 

“Heroes!” Chiron struck his hoof on the floor. “All the details are not clear yet, but Leo is correct, 
perhaps the greatest project Cabin Nine has even undertaken, even greater than the bronze dragon.” 

“It’ll take a year at least,” Nyssa guessed. “Do we have that much time?” 

“Nt>u have six months at most,” Chiron said. “>bu should sail by summer solstice, when the gods’ power is strongest. Besides, we evidently cannot 
trust the wind gods, and the summer winds are the least powerful and easiest to navigate. You dare not sail any later, or you may be too late to stop the 
giants. \bu must avoid ground travel, using only air and sea, so this vehicle is perfect. Jason being the son of the sky god ...” 

His voice trailed off, but Leo figured Chiron was thinking about his missing student, Percy Jackson, the son of Poseidon. He would’ve been good on 
this voyage, too. 

Jake Mason turned to Leo. “Well, one thing’s for sure. You are now senior counselor. This is the biggest honor the cabin has ever had. Anyone 
object?” 

Nobody did. All his cabinmates smiled at him, and Leo could almost feel their cabin’s curse breaking, their sense of hopelessness melting away. 

“It’s official, then,” Jake said. “You’re the man.” 

For once, Leo was speechless. Ever since his mom died, he’d spent his life on the run. Now he’d found a home and a family. He’d found a job to do. 
And as scary as it was, Leo wasn't tempted to run — not even a little. 

“Well,” he said at last, “if you guys elect me leader, you must be even crazier than I am. So let’s build a spankin’ hot war machine!” 



all at once. Who were the other four demigods? 
He will need your help to build the Argo II. It is 



L V 



JASON 



Jason waited alone in Cabin One 

Annabeth and Rachel were due any minute for the head counselors' meeting, and Jason needed time to think. 

His dreams the night before had been worse than he’d wanted to share — even with Piper. His memory was still foggy, but bits and pieces were 
coming back. The night Lupa had tested him at the Wolf House, to decide if he would be a pup or food. Then the long trip south to ... he couldn’t 
remember, but he had flashes of his old life. The day he’d gotten his tattoo. The day he’d been raised on a shield and proclaimed a praetor. His friends’ 
faces: Dakota, Gwendolyn, Hazel, Bobby. And Reyna. Definitely there’d been a girl named Reyna. He wasn’t sure what she’d meant to him, but the 
memory made him question what he felt about Piper — and wonder if he was doing something wrong. The problem was, he liked Piper a lot. 

Jason moved his stuff to the corner alcove where his sister had once slept. He put Thalia’s photograph back on the wall so he didn’t feel alone. He 
stared up at the frowning statue of Zeus, mighty and proud, but the statue didn’t scare him anymore. It just made him feel sad. 

“I know you can hear me,” Jason said to the statue. 

The statue said nothing. Its painted eyes seemed to stare at him. 

“I wish I could talk with you in person,” Jason continued, “but I understand you can't do that. The Roman gods don't like to interact with mortals so 
much, and — well, you're the king. You’ve got to set an example.” 

More silence. Jason had hoped for something — a bigger than usual rumble of thunder, a bright light, a smile. No, never mind. A smile would’ve been 
creepy. 

“I remember some things,” he said. The more he talked, the less self-conscious he felt. “I remember that it’s hard being a son of Jupiter. Everyone is 
always looking at me to be a leader, but I always feel alone. I guess you feel the same way up on Olympus. The other gods challenge your decisions. 
Sometimes you’ve got to make hard choices, and the others criticize you. And you can’t come to my aid like other gods might. You’ve got to keep me at a 
distance so it doesn’t look like you’re playing favorites. I guess I just wanted to say ...” 

Jason took a deep breath. “I understand all that. It’s okay. I’m going to try to do my best. I'll try to make you proud. But I could really use some 
guidance, Dad. If there’s anything you can do — help me so I can help my friends. I’m afraid I’ll get them killed. I don’t know howto protect them.” 

The back of his neck tingled. He realized someone was standing behind him. He turned and found a woman in a black hooded robe, with a goatskin 
cloak over her shoulders and a sheathed Roman sword — a gladius — in her hands. 

“Hera,” he said. 

She pushed back her hood. “To you, I have always been Juno. And your father has already sent you guidance, Jason. He sent you Piper and Leo. 
They’re not just your responsibility. They are also your friends. Listen to them, and you will do well.” 

“Did Jupiter send you here to tell me that?” 

“No one sends me anywhere, hero,” she said. “I am not a messenger.” 

“But you got me into this. Why did you send me to this camp?” 

“I think you know,” Juno said. “An exchange of leaders was necessary. It was the only way to bridge to gap.” 

“I didn’t agree to it.” 

“No. But Zeus gave your life to me, and I am helping you fulfill your destiny.” 

Jason tried to control his anger. He looked down at his orange camp shirt and the tattoos on his arm, and he knew these things should not go 
together. He had become a contradiction — a mixture as dangerous as anything Medea could cook up. 

“Nbu’re not giving me all my memories,” he said. “Even though you promised.” 

“Most will return in time,” Juno said. “But you must find your own way back. \bu need these next months with your new friends, your new home. You’re 
gaining their trust. By the time you sail in your ship, you will be a leader at this camp. And you will be ready to be a peacemaker between two great 
powers.” 

“What if you’re not telling the truth?” he asked. “What if you’re doing this to cause another civil war?” 

Juno’s expression was impossible to read — amusement? Disdain? Affection? Possibly all three. As much as she appeared human, Jason knew she 
was not. He could still see that blinding light — the true form of the goddess that had seared itself into his brain. She was Juno and Hera. She existed in 
many places at once. Her reasons for doing something were never simple. 

“I am the goddess of family,” she said. “My family has been divided for too long.” 

“They divided us so we don’t kill each other,” Jason said. “That seems like a pretty good reason.” 

“The prophecy demands that we change. The giants will rise. Each can only be killed by a god and demigod working together. Those demigods must 
be the seven greatest of the age. As it stands, they are divided between two places. If we remain divided, we cannot win. Gaea is counting on this. Nt>u 
must unite the heroes of Olympus and sail together to meet the giants on the ancient battlegrounds of Greece. Only then will the gods be convinced to join 
you. It will be the most dangerous quest, the most important voyage, ever attempted by the children of the gods.” 

Jason looked up again at the glowering statue of his father. 

“It’s not fair,” Jason said. “I could ruin everything.” 

“\fc>u could,” Juno agreed. “But gods need heroes. We always have.” 

“Even you? I thought you hated heroes.” 

The goddess gave him a dry smile. “I have that reputation. But if you want the truth, Jason, I often envy other gods their mortal children. Nt>u demigods 
can span both worlds. I think this helps your godly parents — even Jupiter, curse him — to understand the mortal world better than I.” 

Juno sighed so unhappily that despite his anger, Jason almost felt sorry for her. 

“I am the goddess of marriage,” she said. “It is not in my nature to be faithless. I have only two godly children — Ares and Hephaestus — both of whom 
are disappointments. I have no mortal heroes to do my bidding, which is why I am so often bitter toward demigods — Heracles, Aeneas, all of them. But it 
is also why I favored the first Jason, a pure mortal, who had no godly parent to guide him. And why I am glad Zeus gave you to me. You will be my 
champion, Jason. You will be the greatest of heroes, and bring unity to the demigods, and thus to Olympus.” 

Her words settled over him, as heavy as sandbags. Two days ago, he’d been terrified by the idea of leading demigods into a Great Prophecy, sailing 
off to battle the giants and save the world. 



He was still terrified, but something had changed. He no longer felt alone. He had friends now, and a home to fight for. He even had a patron goddess 
looking out for him, which had to count for something, even if she seemed a little untrustworthy. 

Jason had to stand up and accept his destiny, just as he had done when he faced Porphyrion with his bare hands. Sure, it seemed impossible. He 
might die. But his friends were counting on him. 

“And if I fail?” he asked. 

“Great victory requires great risk,” she admitted. “Fail, and there will be bloodshed like we have never seen. Demigods will destroy one another. The 
giants will overrun Olympus. Gaea will wake, and the earth will shake off everything we have built over five millennia. It will be the end of us all.” 

“Great. Just great.” 

Someone pounded on the cabin doors. 

Juno pulled her hood back over her face. Then she handed Jason the sheathed gladius. “Take this for the weapon you lost. We will speak again. Like 
it or not, Jason, I am your sponsor, and your link to Olympus. We need each other.” 

The goddess vanished as the doors creaked open, and Piper walked in. 

“Annabeth and Rachel are here,” she said. “Chiron has summoned the council.” 




L V 1 



JASON 

The COUNCIL WAS NOTHING LIKE Jason imagined. For one thing, it was in the Big House rec room, around a Ping-Pong table, and one of the satyrs was 
serving nachos and sodas. Somebody had brought Seymour the leopard head in from the living room and hung him on the wall. Every once in a while, a 
counselor would toss him a Snausage. 

Jason looked around the room and tried to remember everyone’s name. Thankfully, Leo and Piper were sitting next to him — it was their first meeting 
as senior counselors. Clarisse, leader of the Ares cabin, had her boots on the table, but nobody seemed to care. Clovis from Hypnos cabin was snoring 
in the corner while Butch from Iris cabin was seeing how many pencils he could fit in Clovis’s nostrils. Travis Stoll from Hermes was holding a lighter under 
a Ping-Pong ball to see if it would burn, and Will Solace from Apollo was absently wrapping and unwrapping an Ace bandage around his wrist. The 
counselor from Hecate cabin, Lou Ellen something-or-other, was playing “got-your-nose” with Miranda Gardiner from Demeter, except that Lou Ellen really 
had magically disconnected Miranda’s nose, and Miranda was trying to get it back. 

Jason had hoped Thalia would show. She’d promised, after all — but she was nowhere to be seen. Chiron had told him not to worry about it. Thalia 
often got sidetracked fighting monsters or running quests for Artemis, and she would probably arrive soon. But still, Jason worried. 

Rachel Dare, the oracle, sat next to Chiron at the head of the table. She was wearing her Clarion Academy school uniform dress, which seemed a bit 
odd, but she smiled at Jason. 

Annabeth didn’t look so relaxed. She wore armor over her camp clothes, with her knife at her side and her blond hair pulled back in a ponytail. As 
soon as Jason walked in, she fixed him with an expectant look, as if she were trying to extract information out of him by sheer willpower. 

“Let’s come to order,” Chiron said. “Lou Ellen, please give Miranda her nose back. Travis, if you’d kindly extinguish the flaming Ping-Pong ball, and 
Butch, I think twenty pencils is really too many for any human nostril. Thank you. Now, as you can see, Jason, Piper, and Leo have returned successfully. . . 
more or less. Some of you have heard parts of their story, but I will let them fill you in.” 

Everyone looked at Jason. He cleared his throat and began the story. Piper and Leo chimed in from time to time, filling in the details he forgot. 

It only took a few minutes, but it seemed like longer with everyone watching him. The silence was heavy, and for so many ADHD demigods to sit still 
listening for that long, Jason knew the story must have sounded pretty wild. He ended with Hera’s visit right before the meeting. 

“So Hera was here," Annabeth said. “Talking to you.” 

Jason nodded. “Look, I’m not saying I trust her — ” 

“That’s smart,” Annabeth said. 

“ — but she isn’t making this up about another group of demigods. That’s where I came from.” 

“Romans.” Clarisse tossed Seymour a Snausage. “Nt>u expect us to believe there’s another camp with demigods, but they follow the Roman forms of 
the gods. And we’ve never even heard of them.” 

Piper sat forward. “The gods have kept the two groups apart, because every time they see each other, theytryto kill each other.” 

“I can respect that,” Clarisse said. “Still, why haven’t we ever run across each other on quests?” 

“Oh, yes,” Chiron said sadly. “You have, many times. It’s always a tragedy, and always the gods do their best to wipe clean the memories of those 
involved. The rivalry goes all the way back to the Trojan War, Clarisse. The Greeks invaded Troy and burned it to the ground. The Trojan hero Aeneas 
escaped, and eventually made his way to Italy, where he founded the race that would someday become Rome. The Romans grew more and more 
powerful, worshipping the same gods but under different names, and with slightly different personalities.” 

“More warlike,” Jason said. “More united. More about expansion, conquest, and discipline.” 

“Yuck,” Travis put in. 

Several of the others looked equally uncomfortable, though Clarisse shrugged like it sounded okay to her. 

Annabeth twirled her knife on the table. “And the Romans hated the Greeks. They took revenge when they conquered the Greek isles, and made 
them part of the Roman Empire.” 

“Not exactly hated them,” Jason said. “The Romans admired Greek culture, and were a little jealous. In return, the Greeks thought the Romans were 
barbarians, but they respected their military power. So during Roman times, demigods started to divide — either Greek or Roman.” 

“And it’s been that way ever since,” Annabeth guessed. “But this is crazy. Chiron, where were the Romans during the Titan War? Didn’t they want to 
help?” 

Chiron tugged at his beard. “They did help, Annabeth. While you and Percy were leading the battle to save Manhattan, who do think conquered Mount 
Othrys, the Titans’ base in California?” 

“Hold on,” Travis said. “You said Mount Othrys just crumbled when we beat Kronos.” 

“No,” Jason said. He remembered flashes of the battle — a giant in starry armor and a helm mounted with ram’s horns. He remembered his army of 
demigods scaling Mount Tam, fighting through hordes of snake monsters. “It didn’t just fall. We destroyed their palace. I defeated the Titan Krios myself.” 
Annabeth’s eyes were as stormy as a ventus. Jason could almost see her thoughts moving, putting the pieces together. “The Bay Area. We 
demigods were always told to stay away from it because Mount Othrys was there. But that wasn’t the only reason, was it? The Roman camp — it’s got to 
be somewhere near San Francisco. I bet it was put there to keep watch on the Titans’ territory. Where is it?” 

Chiron shifted in his wheelchair. “I cannot say. Honestly, even / have never been trusted with that information. My counterpart, Lupa, is not exactly the 
sharing type. Jason’s memory, too, has been burned away.” 

“The camp’s heavily veiled with magic,” Jason said. “And heavily guarded. We could search for years and neverfind it.” 

Rachel Dare laced her fingers. Of all the people in the room, only she didn’t seem nervous about the conversation. “But you’ll try, won’t you? \buTI 
build Leo’s boat, the Argo II. And before you make for Greece, you’ll sail for the Roman camp. You’ll need their help to confront the giants.” 

“Bad plan,” Clarisse warned. “If those Romans see a warship coming, they’ll assume we’re attacking.” 

“Tbu’re probably right,” Jason agreed. “But we have to try. I was sent here to learn about Camp Half-Blood, to try to convince you the two camps don’t 
have to be enemies. A peace offering.” 

“Hmm,” Rachel said. “Because Hera is convinced we need both camps to win the war with the giants. Seven heroes of Olympus — some Greek, 
some Roman.” 

Annabeth nodded. “\bur Great Prophecy — what’s the last line?” 



“And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.” 

“Gaea has opened the Doors of Death,” Annabeth said. “She’s letting out the worst villains of the Underworld to fight us. Medea, Midas — there’ll be 
more, I’m sure. Maybe the line means that the Roman and Greek demigods will unite, and find the doors, and close them." 

“Or it could mean they fight each other at the doors of death,” Clarisse pointed out. “It doesn’t say we’ll cooperate.” 

There was silence as the campers let that happy thought sink in. 

“I’m going,” Annabeth said. “Jason, when you get this ship built, let me go with you.” 

“I was hoping you’d offer,” Jason said. “Nt>u of all people — we’ll need you.” 

“Wait.” Leo frowned. “I mean that’s cool with me and all. But why Annabeth of all people?” 

Annabeth and Jason studied one another, and Jason knew she had put it together. She saw the dangerous truth. 

“Hera said my coming here was an exchange of leaders,” Jason said. “A way for the two camps to learn of each other’s existence.” 

“\feah?” Leo said. “So?” 

“An exchange goes two ways," Jason said. “When I got here, my memory was wiped. I didn't know who I was or where I belonged. Fortunately, you 
guys took me in and I found a new home. I know you’re not my enemy. The Roman camp — they’re not so friendly. You prove your worth quickly, or you don’t 
survive. They may not be so nice to him, and if they learn where he comes from, he’s going to be in serious trouble.” 

“Him?” Leo said. “Who are you talking about?” 

“My boyfriend,” Annabeth said grimly. “He disappeared around the same time Jason appeared. If Jason came to Camp Half-Blood — ” 

“Exactly,” Jason agreed. “Percy Jackson is at the other camp, and he probably doesn’t even remember who he is.” 




Gods in The Lost Hero 



Aeolus The Greek god of the winds. Roman form: Aeolus 

Aphrodite The Greek goddess of love and beauty. She was marred to Hephaestus, but she loved Ares, the god of war. Roman form: Venus 

Apollo The Greek god of the sun, prophecy, music, and healing; the son of Zeus, and the twin of Artemis. Roman form: Apollo 

Ares The Greek god of war; the son of Zeus and Hera, and half brother to Athena. Roman form: Mars 

Artemis The Greek goddess of the hunt and the moon; the daughter of Zeus and the twin of Apollo. Roman form: Diana 

Boreas The Greek god of the north wind, one of the four directional anemoi (wind gods); the god of winter; father of Khione. Roman form: Aquilon 
Demeter The Greek goddess of agriculture, a daughter of the Titans Rhea and Kronos. Roman form: Ceres 
Dionysus The Greek god of wine; the son of Zeus. Roman form: Bacchus 
Gaea The Greek personification of Earth. Roman form: Terra 

Hades According to Greek mythology, ruler of the Underworld and god of the dead. Roman form: Pluto 
Hecate The Greek goddess of magic; the only child of the Titans Perses and Asteria. Roman form: Trivia 

Hephaestus The Greek god of fire and crafts and of blacksmiths; the son of Zeus and Hera, and married to Aphrodite. Roman form: Vulcan 

Hera The Greek goddess of marriage; Zeus’s wife and sister. Roman form: Juno 

Hermes The Greek god of travelers, communication, and thieves; son of Zeus. Roman form: Mercury 

Hypnos The Greek god of sleep; the (fatherless) son of Nyx (Night) and brother of Thanatos (Death). Roman form: Somnus 

Iris The Greek goddess of the rainbow, and a messenger of the gods; the daughter of Thaumas and Electra. Roman form: Iris 

Janus The Roman god of gates, doors, and doorways, as well as beginnings and endings. 

Khione The Greek goddess of snow; daughter of Boreas Notus The Greek god of the south wind, one of the four directional anemoi (wind gods). 
Roman form: Favonius 

Ouranos The Greek personification of the sky. Roman form: Uranus 
Pan The Greek god of the wild; the son of Hermes. Roman form: Faunus 
Pompona The Roman goddess of plenty 

Poseidon The Greek god of the sea; son of the Titans Kronos and Rhea, and brother of Zeus and Hades. Roman form: Neptune 
Zeus The Greek god of the sky and king of the gods. Roman form: Jupiter 




Coming Fall 2011 

The Heroes of Olympus, Book Two 
THE SON OF NEPTUNE 




Praise for The Percy Jackson Series by Rick Riordan: 

The Lightning Thief 

“Perfectly paced, with electrifying moments chasing each other like heartbeats.’’ 

— The NewYork Times Book Review 

The Sea of Monsters 

“In a feat worthy of his heroic subjects, Riordan crafts a sequel stronger than his compelling debut.” — Publishers Weekly (starred review) 

The Titan’s Curse 

“All in all, a winner of Olympic proportions.” 

— School Library Journal 

The Battle of the Labyrinth 

“Look no further for the next Harry Potter; meet Percy Jackson, as legions of fans already have.” — Kirkus Reviews (starred review) 

The Last Olympian 

“The hordes of young readers who have devoured Rick Riordan's books ... will no doubt gulp down this concluding volume as greedily as they would 
a plateful of ambrosia, or maybe pizza.” 

— The Wall Street Journal 




Praise for The Kane Chronicles Book 1 : The Red Pyramid by Rick Riordan: 

“The first volume in the Kane Chronicles, this fantasy adventure delivers what fans loved about the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series: young 
protagonists with previously unsuspected magical powers, a riveting story marked by headlong adventure, a complex background rooted in ancient 
mythology, and wry, witty twenty-first-century narration.” 

— ALA Booklist (starred review) 

“Riordan fans young and old will eat this new book up.” 

— The NewYork Times Book Review 

“Fans of the Riordan magic — equal parts danger, myth, and irreverence — will embrace this new series with open arms.” 

— Horn Book 

“This tale explodes into action from chapter one... Readers pining for Percy Jackson will find new heroes in Carter and Sadie Kane." 

— Kirkus Reviews 

“Once again, Riordan masterfully meshes modern life with mythology and history, re invigorating dusty artifacts such as the Rosetta stone and 
revitalizing ancient Egyptian story lines.” 

— The Los Angeles Times 

“A truly original take on Egyptian mythology ... A must-have book.” — School Library Journal (starred review) 

“For anyone who was afraid he couldn’t top his Percy Jackson series or his initial title in the 39 Clues, fear no more. Riordan mined Greek myths for 
the lineage of his campers at Half-Blood. Now he drills into the depths of Egyptian history and lore for the page-turning Kane Chronicles. Riordan has a 
field day ... imparting Egyptian history as he weaves his spellbinding tale. Plenty of humor keeps things light... Readers will be clamoring for the next 
installment.” 

— Shelf A wareness 




About the Author 



Rick Riordan is the author of the NewYork Times #1 bestselling The Kane Chronicles, Book One: The Red Pyramid, as well as all the books in the New 
York Times #1 best-selling Percy Jackson and the Olympians series: The Lightning Thief ; The Sea of Monsters] The Titan’s Curse] The Battle of the 
Labyrinth] and The Last Olympian. His previous novels for adults include the hugely popular Tres Navarre series, winner of the top three awards in the 
mystery genre. He lives in San Antonio, Texas, with his wife and two sons. To learn more about Rick, visit his Web site at www. rickriordan.com. 





RICK RIORDAN 



A 



T H 6 HEROES 



Of OLYMPUS 



The Son OF 

|\(EPTUNE 



RICK RIORDAN 



• Hyperion Books 
New York 



Copyright ©2011 byRckRordan 



All rights reserved. Published by Disney • Hyperion Books, an imprint of Disney Book Group. No part of this 
book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic or mechanical, including 
photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without witten permission from 
the publisher. For information address Disney • Hyperion Books 114 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 
10011-5690. First Edition 

ISBN 978-142314059-7 
Map illustration on pp. viii-ix by Kayley LeFaiver 

Visit www.diaievhvperionbookscom 



Table of Contents 



Also Bv Rick Riordan 

I Percy 

II Percy 

III Percy 

IV Percy 

V Hazel 

VI Hazel 

VII Hazel 

VIII Hazel 

IX Frank 

X Frank 

XI Frank 

XII Frank 

XIII Percy 

XIV Percy 

XV Percy 

XVI Percy 

XVII Hazel 

XVIII Hazel 

XIX Hazel 

XX Hazel 

XXI Frank 

XXII Frank 

XXIII Frank 

XXIV Frank 

XXV 

XXVI Percy 

XXVII Percy 
XXVIII Percy 

XXIX Hazel 

XXX Hazel 

XXXI Hazel 



XXXII Hazel 



XXXIII Frank 

XXXIV Frank 

XXXV Frank 

XXXVI Frank 
XXXVII Percy 
XXXVIII Percy 
XXXIX Percy 
XL Percy 
XLI Hazel 
XLII Hazel 
XLIII Hazel 
XLIV Hazel 
XLV Frank 
XLVI Frank 
XLVII Frank 
XLVIII Frank 
XLIX Percy 

L Percy 
LI Percy 
Lll Percy 
Glossary 

Coming Fall 2012 
The Percy Jackson Series 
The Kane Chronicles 
The Throne of Fire 
The Heroes of Olympus 
About the Author 



Also by Rick Riordan 



Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book One: 
The Lightning Thief 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Two: 
The Sea of Monsters 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Three: 
The Titan’s Curse 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Four: 
The Battle of the Labyrinth 

Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book Five: 
The Last Olympian 

The Kane Chronicles, Book One: 

The Red Pyramid 

The Kane Chronicles, Book Two: 

The Throne of Fire 

The Heroes of Olympus, Book One: 

The Lost Hero 




To Becky, vho shares my sanctuary in New Rome. Even Hera could 
never make me forget you. 




I 



PERCY 



The snake-haired ladies were starting to annoy Percy. 

They should have died three days ago when he dropped a crate of 
bowling balls on them at the Napa Bargain Mart. They should have died 
two days ago when he ran over them with a police car in Martinez. They 
definitely should have died this morning when he cut off their heads in 
Tilden Park. 

No matter how many times Percy killed them and watched them 
crumble to powder, they just kept re-forming like large evil dust bunnies. He 
couldn’t even seem to outrun them. 

He reached the top of the hill and caught his breath. How long since 
he’d last killed them? Maybe two hours. They never seemed to stay dead 
longer than that. 

The past few days, he’d hardly slept. He’d eaten whatever he could 
scrounge — vending machine gummi bears, stale bagels, even a Jack in 
the Crack burrito, which was a new personal low. His clothes were torn, 
burned, and splattered with monster slime. 

He’d only survived this long because the two snake-haired-ladies 
— gorgons, they called themselves — couldn’t seem to kill him either. Their 
claws didn’t cut his skin. Their teeth broke whenever they tried to bite him. 
But Percy couldn’t keep going much longer. Soon he’d collapse from 
exhaustion, and then — as hard as he was to kill, he was pretty sure the 
gorgons would find a way. 

Where to run? 



He scanned his surroundings. Under different circumstances, he 
might've enjoyed the view. To his left, golden hills rolled inland, dotted with 
lakes, woods, and a few herds of cows. To his right, the flatlands of 
Berkeley and Oakland marched west — a vast checkerboard of 
neighborhoods, with several million people who probably did not want their 
morning interrupted by two monsters and a filthy demigod. 

Farther west, San Francisco Bay glittered under a silvery haze. Past 
that, a wall of fog had swallowed most of San Francisco, leaving just the 
tops of skyscrapers and the towers of the Golden Gate Bridge. 

A vague sadness weighed on Percy’s chest. Something told him he'd 
been to San Francisco before. The city had some connection to Annabeth 
— the only person he could remember from his past. His memory of her 
was frustratingly dim. The wolf had promised he would see her again and 
regain his memory — if he succeeded in his journey. 

Should he try to cross the bay? 

It was tempting. He could feel the power of the ocean just over the 
horizon. Water always revived him. Salt water was the best. He'd 
discovered that two days ago when he had strangled a sea monster in the 
Carquinez Strait. If he could reach the bay, he might be able to make a last 
stand. Maybe he could even drown the gorgons. But the shore was at least 
two miles away. He'd have to cross an entire city. 

He hesitated for another reason. The she-wolf Lupa had taught him to 
sharpen his senses — to trust the instincts that had been guiding him south. 
His homing radar was tingling like crazy now. The end of his journey was 
close — almost right under his feet. But how could that be? There was 
nothing on the hilltop. 

The wind changed. Percy caught the sour scent of reptile. A hundred 
yards down the slope, something rustled through the woods — snapping 
branches, crunching leaves, hissing. 

Gorgons. 

For the millionth time, Percy wished their noses weren’t so good. They 
had always said they could smell him because he was a demigod — the 
half-blood son of some old Roman god. Percy had tried rolling in mud, 
splashing through creeks, even keeping air-freshener sticks in his pockets 
so he'd have that new car smell; but apparently demigod stink was hard to 




mask. 

He scrambled to the west side of the summit. It was too steep to 
descend. The slope plummeted eighty feet, straight to the roof of an 
apartment complex built into the hillside. Fifty feet below that, a highway 
emerged from the hill's base and wound its way toward Berkeley. 

Great. No other way off the hill. He'd managed to get himself cornered. 

He stared at the stream of cars flowing west toward San Francisco 
and wished he were in one of them. Then he realized the highway must cut 
through the hill. There must be a tunnel. ..right under his feet. 

His internal radar went nuts. He was in the right place, just too high up. 
He had to check out that tunnel. He needed a way down to the highway — 
fast. 

He slung off his backpack. He'd managed to grab a lot of supplies at 
the Napa Bargain Mart: a portable GPS, duct tape, lighter, superglue, 
water bottle, camping roll, a Comfy Panda Pillow Pet (as seen on TV), and 
a Swiss army knife — pretty much every tool a modern demigod could want. 
But he had nothing that would serve as a parachute or a sled. 

That left him two options: jump eighty feet to his death, or stand and 
fight. Both options sounded pretty bad. 

He cursed and pulled his pen from his pocket. 

The pen didn't look like much, just a regular cheap ballpoint, but when 
Percy uncapped it, it grew into a glowing bronze sword. The blade 
balanced perfectly. The leather grip fit his hand like it had been custom 
designed for him. Etched along the guard was an Ancient Greek word 
Percy somehow understood: Anaklusmos — Riptide. 

He'd woken up with this sword his first night at the Wolf House — two 
months ago? More? He’d lost track. He'd found himself in the courtyard of 
a burned-out mansion in the middle of the woods, wearing shorts, an 
orange T-shirt, and a leather necklace with a bunch of strange clay beads. 
Riptide had been in his hand, but Percy had had no idea how he'd gotten 
there, and only the vaguest idea who he was. He'd been barefoot, freezing, 
and confused. And then the wolves came.... 

Right next to him, a familiar voice jolted him back to the present: 
“There you are!” 




Percy stumbled away from the gorgon, almost falling off the edge of 
the hill. 

It was the smiley one — Beano. 

Okay, her name wasn't really Beano. As near as Percy could figure, he 
was dyslexic, because words got twisted around when he tried to read. 
The first time he’d seen the gorgon, posing as a Bargain Mart greeter with 
a big green button that read: Welcome! My name is STHENO, he'd thought 
it said beano. 

She was still wearing her green Bargain Mart employee vest over a 
flower-print dress. If you looked just at her body, you might think she was 
somebody's dumpy old grandmother — until you looked down and realized 
she had rooster feet. Or you looked up and saw bronze boar tusks sticking 
out of the corners of her mouth. Her eyes glowed red, and her hair was a 
writhing nest of bright green snakes. 

The most horrible thing about her? She was still holding her big silver 
platter of free samples: Crispy Cheese 'n' Wieners. Her platter was dented 
from all the times Percyhad killed her, but those little samples looked 
perfectly fine. Stheno just kept toting them across California so she could 
offer Percy a snack before she killed him. Percy didn’t know why she kept 
doing that, but if he ever needed a suit of armor, he was going to make it 
out of Crispy Cheese 'n' Wieners. They were indestructible. 

“Try one?” Stheno offered. 

Percy fended her off with his sword. “Where's your sister?” 

“Oh, put the sword away,” Stheno chided. “You know by now that even 
Celestial bronze can’t kill us for long. Have a Cheese 'n' Wiener! They're 
on sale this week, and I’d hate to kill you on an empty stomach.” 

“Stheno!” The second gorgon appeared on Percy’s right so fast, he 
didn't have time to react. Fortunately she was too busy glaring at her sister 
to pay him much attention. “I told you to sneak up on him and kill him!” 

Stheno's smile wavered. “But, Euryale...” She said the nameso it 
rhymed with Muriel. “Can't I give him a sample first?” 

"No, you imbecile!” Euryale turned toward Percy and bared her fangs. 

Except for her hair, which was a nest of coral snakes instead of green 
vipers, she looked exactly like her sister. Her Bargain Mart vest, her 




flowery dress, even her tusks were decorated with 50% off stickers. Her 
name badge read: Hello! My name is die, demigod scum! 

“You've led us on quite a chase, Percy Jackson,” Euryale said. “But 
now you're trapped, and we'll have our revenge!” 

“The Cheese 'n' Wieners are only $2.99,” Stheno added helpfully. 
“Grocery department, aisle three.” Euryale snarled. “Stheno, the Bargain 
Mart was a front! 

You're going native! Now, put down that ridiculous tray and help me kill 
this demigod. Or have you forgotten that he’s the one who vaporized 
Medusa?” 

Percy stepped back. Six more inches, and he'd be tumbling through 
thin air. “Look, ladies, we’ve been over this. I don’t even remember killing 
Medusa. I don’t remember anything! Can’t we just call a truce and talk 
about your weekly specials?” 

Stheno gave her sister a pouty look, which was hard to do with giant 
bronze tusks. “Can we?” 

"No!” Euryale's red eyes bored into Percy. “I don’t care what you 
remember, son of the sea god. I can smell Medusa's blood on you. It’s 
faint, yes, several years old, but you were the last one to defeat her. She 
still has not returned from Tartarus. It’s your fault!” 

Percy didn't really get that. The whole “dying then returning from 
Tartarus” concept gave him a headache. Of course, so did the idea that a 
ballpoint pen could turn into a sword, or that monsters could disguise 
themselves with something called the Mist, or that Percy was the son of a 
barnacle-encrusted god from five thousand years ago. But he did believe 
it. Even though his memory was erased, he knew he was a demigod the 
same way he knew his name was Percy Jackson. From his very first 
conversation with Lupa the wolf, he’d accepted that this crazy messed-up 
world of gods and monsters was his reality. Which pretty much sucked. 

“How about we call it a draw?” he said. “I can’t kill you. You can’t kill 
me. If you're Medusa’s sisters — like the Medusa who turned people to 
stone — shouldn't I be petrified by now?” 

“Heroes!” Euryale said with disgust. “They always bring that up, just 
like our mother! ‘Why can’t you turn people to stone? Your sister can turn 




people to stone.' Well, I'm sorry to disappoint you, boy! That was Medusa's 
curse alone. She was the most hideous one in the family. She got all the 
luck!” 

Stheno looked hurt. “Mother said / was the most hideous.” 

“Quiet!” Euryale snapped. “As for you, Percy Jackson, it’s true you 
bear the mark of Achilles. That makes you a little tougher to kill. But don't 
worry. We'll find a way.” 

"The mark of what?” 

"Achilles,” Stheno said cheerfully. “Oh, he was gorgeous I Dipped in 
the River Styx as a child, you know, so he was invulnerable except for a tiny 
spot on his ankle. That’s what happened to you, dear. Someone must've 
dumped you in the Styx and made your skin like iron. But not to worry. 
Heroes like you always have a weak spot. We just have to find it, and then 
we can kill you. Won't that be lovely? Have a Cheese 'n' Wiener!” 

Percy tried to think. He didn’t remember any dip in the Styx. Then 
again, he didn’t remember much of anything. His skin didn’t feel like iron, 
but it would explain how he'd held out so long against the gorgons. 

Maybe if he just fell down the mountain... would he survive? He didn't 
want to risk it — not without something to slow the fall, or a sled, or. . . 

He looked at Stheno's large silver platter of free samples. 

Hmm... 

“Reconsidering?” Stheno asked. “Very wise, dear. I added some 
gorgon's blood to these, so your death will be quick and painless.” 

Percy’s throat constricted. “You added your blood to the Cheese 'n' 
Wieners?” 

“Just a little.” Stheno smiled. “A tiny nick on my arm, but you’re sweet 
to be concerned. Blood from our right side can cure anything, you know, 
but blood from our left side is deadly — ” 

"You dimwit!” Euryale screeched. “You’re not supposed to tell him that! 
He won't eat the wieners if you tell him they're poisoned!” 

Stheno looked stunned. “He won’t? But I said it would be quick and 
painless.” 

"Never mind!” Euryale's fingernails grew into claws. “We'll kill him the 
hard way — just keep slashing until we find the weak spot. Once we defeat 




Percy Jackson, we'll be more famous than Medusa! Our patron will reward 
us greatly!” 

Percy gripped his sword. He’d have to time his move perfectly — a few 
seconds of confusion, grab the platter with his left hand... 

Keep them talking, he thought. 

“Before you slash me to bits,” he said, “who’s this patron you 
mentioned?” 

Euryale sneered. "The goddess Gaea, of course! The one who 
brought us back from oblivion! You won’t live long enough to meet her, but 
your friends below will soon face her wrath. Even now, her armies are 
marching south. At the Feast of Fortune, she'll awaken, and the demigods 
will be cut down like — like — ” 

"Like our low prices at Bargain Mart!” Stheno suggested. 

“Gah!” Euryale stormed toward her sister. Percy took the opening. He 
grabbed Stheno’s platter, scattering poisoned Cheese ’n' Wieners, and 
slashed Riptide across Euryale's waist, cutting her in half. 

He raised the platter, and Stheno found herself facing her own greasy 
reflection. 

“Medusa!” she screamed. 

Her sister Euryale had crumbled to dust, but she was already starting 
to re-form, like a snowman un-melting. “Stheno, you fool!” she gurgled as 
her half-made face rose from the mound of dust. “That’s just your own 
reflection! Get him!” 

Percy slammed the metal tray on top of Stheno’s head, and she 
passed out cold. 

He put the platter behind his butt, said a silent prayer to whatever 
Roman god oversaw stupid sledding tricks, and jumped off the side of the 
hill. 




PERCY 



The thing about plummeting downhill at fifty miles an hour on a snack 
platter — if you realize it’s a bad idea when you’re halfway down, it’s too 
late. 

Percy narrowly missed a tree, glanced off a boulder, and spun a three- 
sixty as he shot toward the highway. The stupid snack tray did not have 
power steering. He heard the gorgon sisters screaming and caught a 
glimpse of Euryale's coral-snake hair at the top of the hill, but he didn’t 
have time to worry about it. The roof of the apartment building loomed 
below him like the prow of a battleship. Head-on collision in ten, nine, 
eight... 

He managed to swivel sideways to avoid breaking his legs on impact. 
The snack platter skittered across the roof and sailed through the air. The 
platter went one way. Percy went the other. 

As he fell toward the highway, a horrible scenario flashed through his 
mind: his body smashing against an SUV’s windshield, some annoyed 
commuter trying to push him off with the wipers. Stupid sixteen-year-old 
kid falling from the sky! I’m late! 

Miraculously, a gust of wind blew him to one side — just enough to miss 
the highway and crash into a clump of bushes. It wasn’t a soft landing, but it 
was better than asphalt. 

Percy groaned. He wanted to lie there and pass out, but he had to 
keep moving. 

He struggled to his feet. His hands were scratched up, but no bones 



seemed to be broken. He still had his backpack. Somewhere on the sled 
ride he’d lost his sword, but Percy knew it would eventually reappear in his 
pocket in pen form. That was part of its magic. 

He glanced up the hill. The gorgons were hard to miss, with their 
colorful snake hair and their bright green Bargain Mart vests. They were 
picking their way down the slope, going slower than Percy but with a lot 
more control. Those chicken feet must’ve been good for climbing. Percy 
figured he had maybe five minutes before they reached him. 

Next to him, a tall chain-link fence separated the highway from a 
neighborhood of winding streets, cozy houses, and talleucalyptus trees. 
The fence was probably there to keep people from getting onto the 
highway and doing stupid things — like sledding into the fast lane on snack 
trays — but the chain-link was full of big holes. Percy could easily slip 
through into the neighborhood. Maybe he could find a car and drive west to 
the ocean. He didn’t like stealing cars, but over the past few weeks, in life- 
and-death situations, he'd “borrowed” several, including a police cruiser. 
He'd meant to return them, but they never seemed to last very long. 

He glanced east. Just as he’d figured, a hundred yardsuphill the 
highway cut through the base of the cliff. Two tunnel entrances, one for 
each direction of traffic, stared down at him like eye sockets of a giant 
skull. In the middle, where the nose would have been, a cement wall jutted 
from the hillside, with a metal door like the entrance to a bunker. 

It might have been a maintenance tunnel. That's probably what mortals 
thought, if they noticed the door at all. But they couldn’t see through the 
Mist. Percy knew the door was more than that. 

Two kids in armor flanked the entrance. They wore a bizarre mix of 
plumed Roman helmets, breastplates, scabbards, blue jeans, purple T- 
shirts, and white athletic shoes. The guard on the right looked like a girl, 
though it was hard to tell for sure with all the armor. The one on the left was 
a stocky guy with a bow and quiver on his back. Both kids held long 
wooden staffs with iron spear tips, like old-fashioned harpoons. 

Percy’s internal radar was pinging like crazy. After so many horrible 
days, he’d finally reached his goal. His instincts told him that if he could 
make it inside that door, he might find safety for the first time since the 
wolves had sent him south. 




So why did he feel such dread? 

Farther up the hill, the gorgons were scrambling over the roof of the 
apartment complex. Three minutes away — maybe less. 

Part of him wanted to run to the door in the hill. He’d have to cross to 
the median of the highway, but then it would be a short sprint. He could 
make it before the gorgons reached him. 

Part of him wanted to head west to the ocean. That’s where he’d be 
safest. That’s where his power would be greatest. Those Roman guards at 
the door made him uneasy. Something inside him said: This isn’t my 
territory. This is dangerous. 

"You're right, of course,” said a voice next to him. 

Percy jumped. At first he thought Beano had managed to sneak up on 
him again, but the old lady sitting in the bushes was even more repulsive 
than a gorgon. She looked like a hippie who’d been kicked to the side of 
the road maybe forty years ago, where she’d been collecting trash and 
rags ever since. She wore a dress made of tie-dyed cloth, ripped-up quilts, 
and plastic grocery bags. Her frizzy mop of hair was gray-brown, like root- 
beer foam, tied back with a peace-sign headband. Warts and moles 
covered her face. When she smiled, she showed exactly three teeth. 

“It isn’t a maintenance tunnel,” she confided. “It’s the entrance to 
camp.” 

A jolt went up Percy’s spine. Camp. Yes, that’s where he was from. A 
camp. Maybe this was his home. Maybe Annabeth was close by. 

But something felt wrong. 

The gorgons were still on the roof of the apartment building. Then 
Stheno shrieked in delight and pointed in Percy’s direction. 

The old hippie lady raised her eyebrows. "Not much time, child. You 
need to make your choice.” 

"Who are you?” Percy asked, though he wasn't sure he wanted to 
know. The last thing he needed was another harmless mortal who turned 
out to be a monster. 

“Oh, you can call me June.” The old lady’s eyes sparkled as if she'd 
made an excellent joke. “It is June, isn’t it? They named the month after 
me!” 




“Okay.. .Look, Ishould go. Two gorgons are coming. I don’t want them 
to hurt you.” 

June clasped her hands over her heart. “How sweet! But that’s part of 
your choice!” 

“My choice...” Percy glanced nervously toward the hill. The gorgons 
had taken off their green vests. Wings sprouted from their backs — small 
bat wings, which glinted like brass. 

Since when did they have wags'? Maybe they were ornamental. 
Maybe they were too small to get a gorgon into the air. Then the two sisters 
leaped off the apartment building and soared toward him. 

Great. Just great. 

"Yes, a choice,” June said, as if she were in no hurry. “You could leave 
me here at the mercy of the gorgons and go to the ocean. You'd make it 
there safely, I guarantee. The gorgons will be quite happy to attack me and 
let you go. In the sea, no monster would bother you. You could begin a new 
life, live to a ripe old age, and escape a great deal of pain and misery that 
is in your future.” 

Percy was pretty sure he wasn't going to like the second option. “Or?” 

"Or you could do a good deed for an old lady” she said. “Carry me to 
the camp with you.” 

“Carry you?” Percy hoped she was kidding. Then June hiked up her 
skirts and showed him her swollen purple feet. 

"I can’t get there by myself,” she said. “Carry me to camp — across the 
highway, through the tunnel, across the river.” 

Percy didn’t know what river she meant, but it didn’t sound easy. June 
looked pretty heavy. 

The gorgons were only fifty yards away now — leisurely gliding toward 
him as if they knew the hunt was almost over. 

Percy looked at the old lady. “And I’d carry you to this camp because 

?” 

“Because it’s a kindness!” she said. “And if you don’t, the gods will 
die, the world we know will perish, and everyone from your old life will be 
destroyed. Of course, you wouldn’t remember them, so I suppose it won't 
matter. You'd be safe at the bottom of the sea....” 




Percy swallowed. The gorgons shrieked with laughter as they soared 
in for the kill. 

“If I go to the camp,” he said, “will I get my memory back?” 

“Eventually,” June said. “But be warned, you will sacrifice much! You'll 
lose the mark of Achilles. You’ll feel pain, misery, and loss beyond anything 
you've ever known. But you might have a chance to save your old friends 
and family, to reclaim your old life.” 

The gorgons were circling right overhead. They were probably 
studying the old woman, trying to figure out who the new player was before 
they struck. 

“What about those guards at the door?” Percy asked. 

June smiled. “Oh, they’ll let you in, dear. You can trust those two. So, 
what do you say? Will you help a defenseless old woman?” 

Percy doubted June was defenseless. At worst, this was a trap. At 
best, it was some kind of test. 

Percy hated tests. Since he’d lost his memory, his whole life was one 

big fill-in-the-blank. He was , from 

. He felt like , and if 

the monsters caught him, he'd be . 

Then he thought about Annabeth, the only part of his old life he was 
sure about. He had to find her. 

“I’ll carry you.” He scooped up the old woman. 

She was lighter than he expected. Percy tried to ignore her sour 
breath and her calloused hands clinging to his neck. He made it across the 
first lane of traffic. A driver honked. Another yelled something that was lost 
in the wind. Most just swerved and looked irritated, as if they had to deal 
with a lot of ratty teenagers carrying old hippie women across the freeway 
here in Berkeley. 

A shadow fell over him. Stheno called down gleefully, “Clever boy! 
Found a goddess to carry, did you?” 

A goddess? 

June cackled with delight, muttering, “Whoops!” as a car almost killed 
them. 

Somewhere off to his left, Euryale screamed, “Get them! Two prizes 




are better than one!” 

Percy bolted across the remaining lanes. Somehow he made it to the 
median alive. He saw the gorgons swooping down, cars swerving as the 
monsters passed overhead. He wondered what the mortals saw through 
the Mist — giant pelicans? Off-course hang gliders? The wolf Lupa had told 
him that mortal minds could believe just about anything — except the truth. 

Percy ran for the door in the hillside. June got heavier with every step. 
Percy’s heart pounded. His ribs ached. 

One of the guards yelled. The guy with the bow nocked an arrow. 
Percy shouted, “Wait!” 

But the boy wasn’t aiming at him. The arrow flew over Percy’s head. A 
gorgon wailed in pain. The second guard readied her spear, gesturing 
frantically at Percy to hurry. 

Fifty feet from the door. Thirty feet. 

“Gotcha!” shrieked Euryale. Percy turned as an arrow thudded into her 
forehead. Euryale tumbled into the fast lane. A truck slammed into her and 
carried her backward a hundred yards, but she just climbed over the cab, 
pulled the arrow out of her head, and launched back into the air. 

Percy reached the door. “Thanks,” he told the guards. “Good shot.” 

“That should've killed her!” the archer protested. 

“Welcome to my world,” Percy muttered. 

“Frank,” the girl said. “Get them inside, quick! Those are gorgons.” 

"Gorgons?” The archer’s voice squeaked. It was hard to tell much 
about him under the helmet, but he looked stout like a wrestler, maybe 
fourteen or fifteen. “Will the door hold them?” 

In Percy’s arms, June cackled. “No, no it won’t. Onward, Percy 
Jackson! Through the tunnel, over the river!” 

“Percy Jackson?” The female guard was darker-skinned, with curly 
hair sticking out the sides of her helmet. She looked younger than Frank — 
maybe thirteen. Her sword scabbard came down almost to her ankle. Still, 
she sounded like she was the one in charge. “Okay, you’re obviously a 
demigod. But who's the — ?” She glanced at June. “Never mind. Just get 
inside. I'll hold them off.” 

“Hazel,” the boy said. "Don't be crazy.” 




“Go!” she demanded. 

Frank cursed in another language — was that Latin? — and opened the 
door. “Come on!” 

Percy followed, staggering under the weight of the old lady, who was 
definitely getting heavier. He didn't know how that girl Hazel would hold off 
the gorgons by herself, but he was too tired to argue. 

The tunnel cut through solid rock, about the width and height of a 
school hallway. At first, it looked like a typical maintenance tunnel, with 
electric cables, warning signs, and fuse boxes on the walls, lightbulbs in 
wire cages along the ceiling. As they ran deeper into the hillside, the 
cement floor changed to tiled mosaic. The lights changed to reed torches, 
which burned but didn’t smoke. A few hundred yards ahead, Percy saw a 
square of daylight. 

The old lady was heavier now than a pile of sandbags. Percy’s arms 
shook from the strain. June mumbled a song in Latin, like a lullaby, which 
didn't help Percy concentrate. 

Behind them, the gorgons' voices echoed in the tunnel. Hazel shouted. 
Percy was tempted to dump June and runback to help, but then the entire 
tunnel shook with the rumble of falling stone. There was a squawking 
sound, just like the gorgons had made when Percy had dropped a crate of 
bowling balls on them in Napa. He glanced back. The west end of the 
tunnel was now filled with dust. 

“Shouldn't we check on Hazel?” he asked. 

“She'll be okay — I hope,” Frank said. “She’s good underground. Just 
keep moving! We're almost there.” 

"Almost where?” 

June chuckled. “All roads lead there, child. You should know that.” 

"Detention?” Percy asked. 

“Rome, child,” the old woman said. “Rome.” 

Percy wasn’t sure he’d heard her right. True, his memory was gone. 
His brain hadn’t felt right since he had woken up at the Wolf House. But he 
was pretty sure Rome wasn't in California. 

They kept running. The glow at the end of the tunnel grew brighter, and 
finally they burst into sunlight. 




Percy froze. Spread out at his feet was a bowl-shaped valley several 
miles wide. The basin floor was rumpled with smaller hills, golden plains, 
and stretches of forest. A small clear rivercut a winding course from a lake 
in the center and around the perimeter, like a capital G. 

The geography could've been anywhere in northern California — live 
oaks and eucalyptus trees, gold hills and blue skies. That big inland 
mountain — what was it called, Mount Diablo? — rose in the distance, right 
where it should be. 

But Percy felt like he'd stepped into a secret world. In the center of the 
valley, nestled by the lake, was a small city of white marble buildings with 
red-tiled roofs. Some had domes and columned porticoes, like national 
monuments. Others looked like palaces, with golden doors and large 
gardens. He could see an open plaza with freestanding columns, fountains, 
and statues. A five-story-tall Roman coliseum gleamed in the sun, next to a 
long oval arena like a racetrack. 

Across the lake to the south, another hill was dotted with even more 
impressive buildings — temples, Percy guessed. Several stone bridges 
crossed the river as it wound through the valley, and in the north, a long line 
of brickwork arches stretched from the hills into the town. Percy thought it 
looked like an elevated train track. Then he realized it must be an 
aqueduct. 

The strangest part of the valley was right below him. About two 
hundred yards away, just across the river, was some sort of military 
encampment. It was about a quarter mile square, with earthen ramparts on 
all four sides, the tops lined with sharpened spikes. Outside the walls ran a 
dry moat, also studded with spikes. Wooden watchtowers rose at each 
corner, manned by sentries with oversized, mounted crossbows. Purple 
banners hung from the towers. A wide gateway opened on the far side of 
camp, leading toward the city. A narrower gate stood closed on the 
riverbank side. Inside, the fortress bustled with activity: dozens of kids 
going to and from barracks, carrying weapons, polishing armor. Percy 
heard the clank of hammers at a forge and smelled meat cooking over a 
fire. 

Something about this place felt very familiar, yet not quite right. 

“Camp Jupiter,” Frank said. “We'll be safe once — ” 




Footsteps echoed in the tunnel behind them. Hazel burst into the light. 
She was covered with stone dust and breathing hard. She’d lost her 
helmet, so her curly brown hair fell around her shoulders. Her armor had 
long slash marks in front from the claws of a gorgon. One of the monsters 
had tagged her with a 50% off sticker. 

“I slowed them down,” she said. "But they'll be here any second.” 

Frank cursed. “We have to get across the river.” 

June squeezed Percy’s neck tighter. "Oh, yes, please. I can’t get my 
dress wet.” 

Percy bit his tongue. If this lady was a goddess, she must’ve been the 
goddess of smelly, heavy, useless hippies. But he’d come this far. He'd 
better keep lugging her along. 

It’s a kindness, she'd said. And if you donf the gods will die, the 
world we know will perish, and everyone from your old life will be 
destroyed. 

If this was a test, he couldn't afford to get an F. 

He stumbled a few times as they ran for the river. Frank and Hazel 
kept him on his feet. 

They reached the riverbank, and Percy stopped to catch his breath. 
The current was fast, but the river didn't look deep. Only a stone's throw 
across stood the gates of the fort. 

"Go, Hazel.” Frank nocked two arrows at once. “Escort Percy so the 
sentries don't shoot him. It’s my turn to hold off the baddies.” 

Hazel nodded and waded into the stream. 

Percy started to follow, but something made him hesitate. Usually he 
loved the water, but this river seemed... powerful, and not necessarily 
friendly. 

"The Little Tiber,” said June sympathetically. “It flows with the power of 
the original Tiber, river of the empire. This is your last chance to back out, 
child. The mark of Achilles is a Greek blessing. You can’t retain it if you 
cross into Roman territory. The Tiber will wash it away.” 

Percy was too exhausted to understand all that, but he got the main 
point. "If I cross, I won't have iron skin anymore?” 

June smiled. “So what will it be? Safety, or a future of pain and 




possibility?” 

Behind him, the gorgons screeched as they flew from the tunnel. Frank 
let his arrows fly. 

From the middle of the river, Flazel yelled, "Percy, come on!” 

Up on the watchtowers, horns blew. The sentries shouted and 
swiveled their crossbows toward the gorgons. 

Annabeth, Percy thought. He forged into the river. It was icy cold, much 
swifter than he’d imagined, but that didn’t bother him. New strength surged 
through his limbs. His senses tingled like he’d been injected with caffeine. 
He reached the other side and put the old woman down as the camp's 
gates opened. Dozens of kids in armor poured out. 

Hazel turned with a relieved smile. Then she looked over Percy’s 
shoulder, and her expression changed to horror. “Frank!” 

Frank was hallway across the river when the gorgons caught him. They 
swooped out of the sky and grabbed him by either arm. He screamed in 
pain as their claws dug into his skin. 

The sentries yelled, but Percy knew they couldn’t get a clear shot. 
They'd end up killing Frank. The other kids drew swords and got ready to 
charge into the water, but they'd be too late. 

There was only one way. 

Percy thrust out his hands. An intense tugging sensation filled his gut, 
and the Tiber obeyed his will. The river surged. Whirlpools formed on 
either side of Frank. Giant watery hands erupted from the stream, copying 
Percy’s movements. The giant hands grabbed the gorgons, who dropped 
Frank in surprise. Then the hands lifted the squawking monsters in a liquid 
vise grip. 

Percy heard the other kids yelping and backing away, but he stayed 
focused on his task. He made a smashing gesture with his fists, and the 
giant hands plunged the gorgons into the Tiber. The monsters hit bottom 
and broke into dust. Glittering clouds of gorgon essence struggled to re- 
form, but the river pulled them apart like a blender. Soon every trace of the 
gorgons was swept downstream. The whirlpools vanished, and the current 
returned to normal. 

Percy stood on the riverbank. His clothes and his skin steamed as if 




the Tiber's waters had given him an acid bath. He felt exposed, raw... 
vulnerable. 

In the middle of the Tiber, Frank stumbled around, looking stunned but 
perfectly fine. Hazel waded out and helped him ashore. Only then did Percy 
realize how quiet the other kids had become. 

Everyone was staring at him. Only the old lady June looked unfazed. 

“Well, that was a lovely trip,” she said. “Thank you, Percy Jackson, for 
bringing me to Camp Jupiter.” 

One of the girls made a choking sound. "Percy. ..Jackson?” 

She sounded as if she recognized his name. Percy focused on her, 
hoping to see a familiar face. 

She was obviously a leader. She wore a regal purple cloak over her 
armor. Her chest was decorated with medals. She must have been about 
Percy’s age, with dark, piercing eyes and long black hair. Percy didn't 
recognize her, but the girl stared at him as if she’d seen him in her 
nightmares. 

June laughed with delight. “Oh, yes. You'll have such fun together!” 

Then, just because the day hadn't been weird enough already, the old 
lady began to glow and change form. She grew until she was a shining, 
seven-foot-tall goddess in a blue dress, with a cloak that looked like goat’s 
skin over her shoulders. Her face was stern and stately. In her hand was a 
staff topped with a lotus flower. 

If it was possible for the campers to look more stunned, they did. The 
girl with the purple cloak knelt. The others followed her lead. One kid got 
down so hastily he almost impaled himself on his sword. 

Hazel was the first to speak. “Juno.” 

She and Frank also fell to their knees, leaving Percy the only one 
standing. He knew he should probably kneel too, but after carrying the old 
lady so far, he didn't feel like showing her that much respect. 

“Juno, huh?” he said. “If I passed your test, can I have my memory and 
my life back?” 

The goddess smiled. “In time, Percy Jackson, if you succeed here at 
camp. You've done well today, which is a good start. Perhaps there’s hope 
for you yet.” 




She turned to the other kids. “Romans, I present to you the son of 
Neptune. For months he has been slumbering, but now he is awake. His 
fate is in your hands. The Feast of Fortune comes quickly, and Death must 
be unleashed if you are to stand any hope in the battle. Do not fail me!” 

Juno shimmered and disappeared. Percy looked at Hazel and Frank 
for some kind of explanation, but they seemed just as confused as he was. 
Frank was holding something Percy hadn’t noticed before — two small clay 
flasks with cork stoppers, like potions, one in each hand. Percy had no 
idea where they’d come from, but he saw Frank slip them into his pockets. 
Frank gave him a look like: Well talk about it later. 

The girl in the purple cloak stepped forward. She examined Percy 
warily, and Percy couldn’t shake the feeling that she wanted to run him 
through with her dagger. 

“So,” she said coldly, “a son of Neptune, who comes to us with the 
blessing of Juno.” 

“Look,” he said, “my memory’s a little fuzzy. Urn, it’s gone, actually. Do 
I know you?” 

The girl hesitated. “I am Reyna, praetor of the Twelfth Legion. And... 
no, I don't know you.” 

That last part was a lie. Percy could tell from her eyes. But he also 
understood that if he argued with her about it here, in front of her soldiers, 
she wouldn't appreciate it. 

“Hazel,” said Reyna, “bring him inside. I want to question him at the 
principia. Then we'll send him to Octavian. We must consult the auguries 
before we decide what to do with him.” 

“What do you mean,” Percy asked, “‘decide what to do with' me?” 

Reyna's hand tightened on her dagger. Obviously she was not used to 
having her orders questioned. “Before we accept anyone into camp, we 
must interrogate them and read the auguries. Juno said your fate is in our 
hands. We have to know whether the goddess has brought us as a new 
recruit....” 

Reyna studied Percy as if she found that doubtful. 

"Or,” she said more hopefully, “if she's brought us an enemy to kill.” 




1 1 1 



PERCY 



Percy wasn’t scared of ghosts, which was lucky. Half the people in camp 
were dead. 

Shimmering purple warriors stood outside the armory, polishing 
ethereal swords. Others hung out in front of the barracks. A ghostly boy 
chased a ghostly dog down the street. And at the stables, a big glowing 
red dude with the head of a wolf guarded a herd of. . . Were those unicorns? 

None of the campers paid the ghosts much attention, but as Percy’s 
entourage walked by with Reyna in the lead and Frank and Hazel on either 
side, all the spirits stopped what they were doing and stared at Percy. A 
few looked angry. The little boy ghost shrieked something like “Greggus!” 
and turned invisible. 

Percy wished he could turn invisible too. After weeks on his own, all 
this attention made him uneasy. He stayed between Hazel and Frank and 
tried to look inconspicuous. 

“Am I seeing things?” he asked. “Or are those — ” 

“Ghosts?” Hazel turned. She had startling eyes, like fourteen-karat 
gold. “They’re Lares. House gods.” 

“House gods," Percy said. “Like... smaller than real gods, but larger 
than apartment gods?” 

“They’re ancestral spirits," Frank explained. He’d removed his helmet, 
revealing a babyish face that didn’t go with his military haircut or his big 
burly frame. He looked like a toddler who’d taken steroids and joined the 
Marines. 



"The Lares are kind of like mascots,” he continued. “Mostlythey're 
harmless, but I've never seen them so agitated.” 

“They're staring at me,” Percy said. “That ghost kid called me 
Greggus. My name isn't Greg.” 

“Graecus ,” Hazel said. “Once you’ve been here awhile, you’ll start 
understanding Latin. Demigods have a natural sense for it. Graecus 
means Greek.” 

“Is that bad?” Percy asked. 

Frank cleared his throat. “Maybe not. You've got that type of 
complexion, the dark hair and all. Maybe they think you’re actually Greek. Is 
your family from there?” 

“Don't know. Like I said, my memory is gone.” 

“Or maybe...” Frank hesitated. 

"What?” Percy asked. 

“Probably nothing,” Frank said. “Romans and Greeks have an old 
rivalry. Sometimes Romans use graecus as an insult for someone who's 
an outsider — an enemy. I wouldn't worry about it.” 

Fie sounded pretty worried. 

They stopped at the center of camp, where two wide stone-paved 
roads met at a T. 

A street sign labeled the road to the main gates as via praetoria. The 
other road, cutting across the middle of camp, was labeled via principalis. 
Linder those markers were hand-painted signs like berkeley 5 miles; new 
rove 1 WILE; OLD ROIVE 7280 WILES; hades 2310 miles (pointing straight down); 
RENO 208 WILES, AND CERTAIN DEATH: YOU ARE HERE! 

For certain death, the place looked pretty clean and orderly. The 
buildings were freshly whitewashed, laid out in neat grids like the camp 
had been designed by a fussy math teacher. The barracks had shady 
porches, where campers lounged in hammocks or played cards and drank 
sodas. Each dorm had a different collection of banners out front displaying 
Roman numerals and various animals — eagle, bear, wolf, horse, and 
something that looked like a hamster. 

Along the Via Praetoria, rows of shops advertised food, armor, 
weapons, coffee, gladiator equipment, and toga rentals. A chariot 




dealership had a big advertisement out front: caesar xls w/antilock 

BRAKES, NO DENARII DOWN! 

At one corner of the crossroads stood the most impressive building — 
a two-story wedge of white marble with a columned portico like an old- 
fashioned bank. Roman guards stood out front. Over the doorway hung a 
big purple banner with the gold letters spqr embroidered inside a laurel 
wreath. 

“Your headquarters?” Percy asked. 

Reyna faced him, her eyes still cold and hostile. “It’s called the 
principia.” 

She scanned the mob of curious campers who had followed them from 
the river. “Everyone back to your duties. I'll give you an update at evening 
muster. Remember, we have war games after dinner.” 

The thought of dinner made Percy’s stomach rumble. The scent of 
barbecue from the dining hall made his mouth water. The bakery down the 
street smelled pretty wonderful too, but he doubted Reyna would let him get 
an order to go. 

The crowd dispersed reluctantly. Some muttered comments about 
Percy’s chances. 

“He's dead,” said one. 

“Would be those two who found him,” said another. 

“Yeah,” muttered another. “Let him join the Fifth Cohort. Greeks and 
geeks.” 

Several kids laughed at that, but Reyna scowled at them, and they 
cleared off. 

“Hazel,” Reyna said. “Come with us. I want your report on what 
happened at the gates.” 

“Me too?” Frank said. “Percy saved my life. We've got to let him — ” 

Reyna gave Frank such a harsh look, he stepped back. 

“I’d remind you, Frank Zhang,” she said, “you are on probatio yourself. 
You've caused enough trouble this week.” 

Frank's ears turned red. He fiddled with a little tablet on a cord around 
his neck. Percy hadn’t paid much attention to it, but it looked like a name 




tag made out of lead. 

“Go to the armory,” Reyna told him. “Check our inventory. I’ll call you if I 
need you.” 

“But — ” Frank caught himself. “Yes, Reyna.” 

He hurried off. 

Reyna waved Hazel and Percy toward the headquarters. “Now, Percy 
Jackson, let’s see if we can improve your memory.” 

The principia was even more impressive inside. On the ceiling glittered a 
mosaic of Romulus and Remus under their adopted mama she-wolf (Lupa 
had told Percy that story a million times). The floor was polished marble. 
The walls were draped in velvet, so Percy felt like he was inside the world's 
most expensive camping tent. Along the back wall stood a display of 
banners and wooden poles studded with bronze medals — military 
symbols, Percy guessed. In the center was one empty display stand, as if 
the main banner had been taken down for cleaning or something. 

In the back comer, a stairwell led down. It was blocked by a row of iron 
bars like a prison door. Percy wondered what was down there — monsters? 
Treasure? Amnesiac demigods who had gotten on Reyna's bad side? 

In the center of the room, a long wooden table was cluttered with 
scrolls, notebooks, tablet computers, daggers, and a large bowl filled with 
jelly beans, which seemed kind of out of place. Two life-sized statues of 
greyhounds — one silver, one gold — flanked the table. Reyna walked 
behind the table and sat in one of two high-backed chairs. Percy wished 
he could sit in the other, but Hazel remained standing. Percy got the feeling 
he was supposed to also. 

“So...” he started to say. 

The dog statues bared their teeth and growled. 

Percy froze. Normally he liked dogs, but these glared at him with ruby 
eyes. Their fangs looked sharp as razors. 

“Easy, guys,” Reyna told the greyhounds. 

They stopped growling, but kept eyeing Percy as though they were 
imagining him in a doggie bag. 

"They won't attack,” Reyna said, “unless you try to steal something, or 




unless I tell them to. That's Argentum and Aurum.” 

“Silver and Gold,” Percy said. The Latin meanings popped into his 
head like Hazel had said they would. He almost asked which dog was 
which. Then he realized that that was a stupid question. 

Reyna set her dagger on the table. Percy had the vague feeling he'd 
seen her before. Her hair was black and glossy as volcanic rock, woven in 
a single braid down her back. She had the poise of a sword fighter — 
relaxed yet vigilant, as if ready to spring into action at any moment. The 
worry lines around her eyes made her look older than she probably was. 

"We have met,” he decided. “I don’t remember when. Please, if you 
can tell me anything — ” 

“First things first,” Reyna said. “I want to hear your story. What do you 
remember? How did you get here? And don't lie. My dogs don't like liars.” 

Argentum and Aurum snarled to emphasize the point. 

Percy told his story — how he'd woken up at the ruined mansion in the 
woods of Sonoma. He described his time with Lupa and her pack, learning 
their language of gestures and expressions, learning to survive and fight. 

Lupa had taught him about demigods, monsters, and gods. She'd 
explained that she was one of the guardian spirits of Ancient Rome. 
Demigods like Percy were still responsible for carrying on Roman 
traditions in modern times — fighting monsters, serving the gods, protecting 
mortals, and upholding the memory of the empire. She'd spent weeks 
training him, until he was as strong and tough and vicious as a wolf. When 
she was satisfied with his skills, she’d sent him south, telling him that if he 
survived the journey, he might find a new home and regain his memory. 

None of it seemed to surprise Reyna. In fact, she seemed to find it 
pretty ordinary — except for one thing. 

“No memory at all?” she asked. “You still remember nothing?” 

“Fuzzy bits and pieces.” Percy glanced at the greyhounds. He didn't 
want to mention Annabeth. It seemed too private, and he was still confused 
about where to find her. He was sure they'd met at a camp — but this one 
didn't feel like the right place. 

Also, he was reluctant to share his one clear memory: Annabeth's 
face, her blond hair and gray eyes, the way she laughed, threw her arms 




around him, and gave him a kiss whenever he did something stupid. 

She must have kissed me a lot, Percy thought. 

He feared that if he spoke about that memory to anyone, it would 
evaporate like a dream. He couldn't risk that. 

Reyna spun her dagger. “Most of what you’re describing is normal for 
demigods. At a certain age, one way or another, we find our way to the 
Wolf House. We're tested and trained. 

If Lupa thinks we’re worthy, she sends us south to join the legion. But 
I've never heard of someone losing his memory. How did you find Camp 
Jupiter?” 

Percy told her about the last three days — the gorgons who wouldn't 
die, the old lady who turned out to be a goddess, and finally meeting Hazel 
and Frank at the tunnel in the hill. 

Hazel took the story from there. She described Percy as brave and 
heroic, which made him uncomfortable. All he’d done was carry a hippie 
bag lady. 

Reyna studied him. “You're old fora recruit. You're what, sixteen?” 

“I think so,” Percy said. 

“If you spent that many years on your own, without training or help, you 
should be dead. A son of Neptune? You’d have a powerful aura that would 
attract all kinds of monsters.” 

"Yeah,” Percy said. “I've been told that I smell.” 

Reyna almost cracked a smile, which gave Percy hope. Maybe she 
was human after all. 

“You must've been somewhere before the Wolf House,” she said. 

Percy shrugged. Juno had said something about him slumbering, and 
he did have a vague feeling that he’d been asleep — maybe for a long time. 
But that didn't make sense. 

Reyna sighed. “Well, the dogs haven't eaten you, so I suppose you're 
telling the truth.” 

“Great,” Percy said. “Next time, can I take a polygraph?” 

Reyna stood. She paced in front of the banners. Her metal dogs 
watched her go back and forth. 




“Even if I accept that you’re not an enemy,” she said, “you’re not a 
typical recruit. The Queen of Olympus simply doesn’t appear at camp, 
announcing a new demigod. The last time a major god visited us in person 
like that...” She shook her head. “I've only heard legends about such 
things. And a son of Neptune... that’s not a good omen. Especially now.” 
“What's wrong with Neptune?” Percy asked. “And what do you mean, 
‘especially now'?” 

Hazel shot him a warning look. 

Reyna kept pacing. “You’ve fought Medusa’s sisters, who haven't 
been seen in thousands of years. You’ve agitated our Lares, who are 
calling you a graecus. And you wear strange symbols — that shirt, the 
beads on your necklace. What do they mean?” 

Percy looked down at his tattered orange T-shirt. It might have had 
words on it at one point, but they were too faded to read. He should have 
thrown the shirt away weeks ago. it was worn to shreds, but he couldn't 
bear to get rid of it. He just kept washing it in streams and water fountains 
as best he could and putting it back on. 

As for the necklace, the four clay beads were each decorated with a 
different symbol. One showed a trident. Another displayed a miniature 
Golden Fleece. The third was etched with the design of a maze, and the 
last had an image of a building — maybe the Empire State Building? — with 
names Percy didn’t recognize engraved around it. The beads felt 
important, like pictures from a family album, but he couldn't remember what 
they meant. 

“I don't know,” he said. 

"And your sword?” Reyna asked. 

Percy checked his pocket. The pen had reappeared as it always did. 
He pulled it out, but then realized he'd never shown Reyna the sword. Hazel 
and Frank hadn't seen it either. How had Reyna known about it? 

Too late to pretend it didn’t exist.... He uncapped the pen. Riptide 
sprang to full form. Hazel gasped. The greyhounds barked apprehensively. 
“What is that?” Hazel asked. “I've never seen a sword like that.” 

“I have,” Reyna said darkly. “It’s very old — a Greek design. We used to 
have a few in the armory before...” She stopped herself. “The metal is 




called Celestial bronze. It’s deadly to monsters, like Imperial gold, but even 
rarer.” 

“Imperial gold?” Percy asked. 

Reyna unsheathed her dagger. Sure enough, the blade was gold. “The 
metal was consecrated in ancient times, at the Pantheon in Rome. Its 
existence was a closely guarded secret of the emperors — a way for their 
champions to slay monsters that threatened the empire. We used to have 
more weapons like this, but now... well, we scrape by. I use this dagger. 
Hazel has a spatha, a cavalry sword. Most legionnaires use a shorter 
sword called a gladius. But that weapon of yours is not Roman at all. It’s 
another sign you’re not a typical demigod. And your arm...” 

“What about it?” Percy asked. 

Reyna held up her own forearm. Percy hadn’t noticed before, but she 
had a tattoo on the inside: the letters spqr, a crossed sword and torch, and 
under that, four parallel lines like score marks. 

Percy glanced at Hazel. 

“We all have them,” she confirmed, holding up her arm. “All full 
members of the legion do.” 

Hazel’s tattoo also had the letters spqr, but she only had one score 
mark, and her emblem was different: a black glyph like a cross with curved 
arms and a head: 

VO/ 

Percy looked at his own arms. A few scrapes, some mud, and a fleck of 
Crispy Cheese 'n' Wiener, but no tattoos. 

“So you’ve never been a member of the legion,” Reyna said. “These 
marks can’t be removed. I thought perhaps...” She shook her head, as if 
dismissing an idea. 

Hazel leaned forward. “If he’s survived as a loner all this time, maybe 
he’s seen Jason.” She turned to Percy. “Have you ever met a demigod like 
us before? A guy in a purple shirt, with marks on his arm — ” 

“Hazel.” Reyna’s voice tightened. “Percy’s got enough to worry about.” 

Percy touched the point of his sword, and Riptide shrank back into a 
pen. "I haven’t seen anyone like you guys before. Who's Jason?” 



Reyna gave Hazel an irritated look. “He is. ..he was my colleague.” 
She waved her hand at the second empty chair. “The legion normally has 
two elected praetors. Jason Grace, son of Jupiter, was our other praetor 
until he disappeared last October.” 

Percy tried to calculate. He hadn’t paid much attention to the calendar 
out in the wilderness, but Juno had mentioned that it was now June. “You 
mean he's been gone eight months, and you haven't replaced him?” 

“He might not be dead,” Hazel said. “We haven't given up.” 

Reyna grimaced. Percy got the feeling this guy Jason might’ve been 
more to her than just a colleague. 

“Elections only happen in two ways,” Reyna said. “Either the legion 
raises someone on a shield after a major success on the battlefield — and 
we haven't had any major battles — or we hold a ballot on the evening of 
June 24, at the Feast of Fortuna. That's in five days.” 

Percy frowned. “You have a feast for tuna?” 

“Fortuna ," Hazel corrected. “She's the goddess of luck. Whatever 
happens on her feast day can affect the entire rest of the year. She can 
grant the camp good luck. . .or really bad luck.” 

Reyna and Hazel both glanced at the empty display stand, as if 
thinking about what was missing. 

A chill went down Percy’s back. “The Feast of Fortune. ..The gorgons 
mentioned that. So did Juno. They said the camp was going to be 
attacked on that day, something about a big bad goddess named Gaea, 
and an army, and Death being unleashed. You’re telling me that day is this 
week?” 

Reyna's fingers tightened around the hilt of her dagger. 

"You will say nothing about that outside this room,” she ordered. “I will 
not have you spreading more panic in the camp.” 

“So it’s true,” Percy said. “Do you know what's going to happen? Can 
we stop it?” 

Percy had just met these people. He wasn’t sure he even liked Reyna. 
But he wanted to help. They were demigods, the same as him. They had 
the same enemies. Besides, Percy remembered what Juno had told him: it 
wasn't just this camp at risk. His old life, the gods, and the entire world 




might be destroyed. Whatever was coming down, it was huge. 

“We've talked enough for now,” Reyna said. “Hazel, take him to 
Temple Hill. Find Octavian. On the way you can answer Percy’s questions. 
Tell him about the legion.” 

“Yes, Reyna.” 

Percy still had so many questions, his brain felt like it would melt. But 
Reyna made it clear the audience was over. She sheathed her dagger. 
The metal dogs stood and growled, inching toward Percy. 

“Good luck with the augury, Percy Jackson,” she said. “If Octavian lets 
you live, perhaps we can compare notes... about your past.” 




1 V 



PERCY 



On the way our of camp, Hazel bought him an espresso drink and a cherry 
muffin from Bombilo the two-headed coffee merchant. 

Percy inhaled the muffin. The coffee was great. Now, Percy thought, if 
he could just get a shower, a change of clothes, and some sleep, he’d be 
golden. Maybe even Imperial golden. 

He watched a bunch of kids in swimsuits and towels head into a 
building that had steam coming out of a row of chimneys. Laughter and 
watery sounds echoed from inside, like it was an indoor pool — Percy’s 
kind of place. 

“Bath house,” Hazel said. “We'll get you in there before dinner, 
hopefully. You haven’t lived until you’ve had a Roman bath.” Percy sighed 
with anticipation. 

As they approached the front gate, the barracks got bigger and nicer. 
Even the ghosts looked better — with fancier armor and shinier auras. 
Percy tried to decipher the banners and symbols hanging in front of the 
buildings. 

“You guys are divided into different cabins?” he asked. 

“Sort of." Hazel ducked as a kid riding a giant eagle swooped 
overhead. “We have five cohorts of about forty kids each. Each cohort is 
divided into barracks often — like roommates, kind of.” 

Percy had never been great at math, but he tried to multiply. “You’re 
telling me there’s two hundred kids at camp?” 



“Roughly.” 

"And all of them are children of the gods? The gods have been busy.” 

Hazel laughed. “Not all of them are children of mayo/gods. There are 
hundreds of minor Roman gods. Plus, a lot of the campers are legacies — 
second or third generation. Maybe their parents were demigods. Or their 
grandparents.” 

Percy blinked. “Children of demigods?” 

“Why? Does that surprise you?” 

Percy wasn’t sure. The last few weeks he'd been so worried about 
surviving day to day. The idea of living long enough to be an adult and have 
kids of his own — that seemed like an impossible dream. 

“These Legos — ” 

“Legacies,” Hazel corrected. 

“They have powers like a demigod?” 

“Sometimes. Sometimes not. But they can be trained. All the best 
Roman generals and emperors — you know, they all claimed to be 
descended from gods. Most of the time, they were telling the truth. The 
camp augur we’re going to meet, Octavian, he’s a legacy, descendant of 
Apollo. He's got the gift of prophecy, supposedly.” 

“Supposedly?” 

Hazel made a sour face. "You'll see.” 

That didn't make Percy feel so great, if this dude Octavian had Percy’s 
fate in his hands. 

“So the divisions,” he asked, “the cohorts, whatever — you’re divided 
according to who your godly parent is?” 

Hazel stared at him. “What a horrible idea! No, the officers decide 
where to assign recruits. If we were divided according to god, the cohorts 
would be all uneven. I’d be alone.” 

Percy felt a twinge of sadness, like he'd been in that situation. “Why? 
What's your ancestry?” 

Before she could answer, someone behind them yelled, “Wait!” 

A ghost ran toward them — an old man with a medicine-ball belly and 
toga so long he kept tripping on it. He caught up to them and gasped for 




air, his purple aura flickering around him. 

"This is him?” the ghost panted. “A new recruit for the Fifth, perhaps?” 
“Vitellius,” Hazel said, “we're sort of in a hurry.” 

The ghost scowled at Percy and walked around him, inspecting him 
like a used car. “I don’t know,” he grumbled. “We need only the best for the 
cohort. Does he have all his teeth? Can he fight? Does he clean stables?” 
“Yes, yes, and no,” Percy said. "Who are you?” 

"Percy, this is Vitellius.” Hazel's expression said: Just humor him. 
“He's one of our Lares; takes an interest in new recruits.” 

On a nearby porch, other ghosts snickered as Vitellius paced back 
and forth, tripping over his toga and hiking up his sword belt. 

“Yes,” Vitellius said, “back in Caesar’s day — that’s Julius Caesar, 
mind you — the Fifth Cohort was something! Twelfth Legion Fulminata, 
pride of Rome! But these days? Disgraceful what we’ve come to. Look at 
Hazel here, using a spatha. Ridiculous weapon for a Roman legionnaire — 
that’s for cavalry! And you, boy — you smell like a Greek sewer. Haven’t you 
had a bath?” 

“I've been a little busy fighting gorgons,” Percy said. 

“Vitellius,” Hazel interrupted, “we’ve got to get Percy’s augury before 
he can join. Why don’t you check on Frank? He’s in the armory doing 
inventory. You knowhow much he values your help.” 

The ghost's furry purple eyebrows shot up. “Mars Almighty! They let the 
probatio check the armor? We'll be ruined!” 

He stumbled off down the street, stopping every few feet to pick up his 
sword or rearrange his toga. 

"O-h-h-kay,” Percy said. 

“Sorry,” Hazel said. “He's eccentric, but he’s one of the oldest Lares. 
Been around since the legion was founded.” 

“He called the legion. ..Fulminata?’’Percy said. 

"‘Armed with Lightning,”’ Hazel translated. “That’s our motto. The 
Twelfth Legion was around for the entire Roman Empire. When Rome fell, 
a lot of legions just disappeared. We went underground, acting on secret 
orders from Jupiter himself: stay alive, recruit demigods and their children, 




keep Rome going. We've been doing that ever since, moving around to 
wherever Roman influence was strongest. The last few centuries, we've 
been in America.” 

As bizarre as that sounded, Percy had no trouble believing it. In fact, it 
sounded familiar, like something he'd always known. 

“And you're in the Fifth Cohort," he guessed, “which maybe isn’t the 
most popular?” 

Hazel scowled. “Yeah. I joined up last September.” 

“So... just a few weeks before that guy Jason disappeared.” 

Percy knew he’d hit a sore spot. Hazel looked down. She was silent 
long enough to count every paving stone. 

“Come on,” she said at last. “I’ll show you my favorite view.” 

They stopped outside the main gates. The fort was situated on the highest 
point in the valley, so they could see pretty much everything. 

The road led down to the river and divided. One path led south across 
a bridge, up to the hill with all the temples. The other road led north into the 
city, a miniature version of Ancient Rome. Unlike the military camp, the city 
looked chaotic and colorful, with buildings crowded together at haphazard 
angles. Even from this far away, Percy could see people gathered in the 
plaza, shoppers milling around an open-air market, parents with kids 
playing in the parks. 

“You've got families here?” he asked. 

“In the city, absolutely,” Hazel said. “When you're accepted into the 
legion, you do ten years of service. After that, you can muster out whenever 
you want. Most demigods go into the mortal world. But for some — well, it’s 
pretty dangerous out there. This valley is a sanctuary. You can go to 
college in the city, get married, have kids, retire when you get old. It's the 
only safe place on earth for people like us. So yeah, a lot of veterans make 
their homes there, under the protection of the legion.” 

Adult demigods. Demigods who could live without fear, get married, 
raise a family. Percy couldn't quite wrap his mind around that. It seemed 
too good to be true. “But if this valley is attacked?” 

Hazel pursed her lips. “We have defenses. The borders are magical. 




But our strength isn’t what it used to be. Lately, the monster attacks have 
been increasing. What you said about the gorgons not dying. ..we've 
noticed that too, with other monsters.” 

“Do you know what's causing it?” 

Hazel looked away. Percy could tell that she was holding something 
back — something she wasn't supposed to say. 

“It’s — it’s complicated,” she said. “My brother says Death isn't — ” 

She was interrupted by an elephant. 

Someone behind them shouted, “Make way!” 

Hazel dragged Percy out of the road as a demigod rode past on a full- 
grown pachyderm covered in black Kevlar armor. The word elephant was 
printed on the side of his armor, which seemed a little obvious to Percy. 

The elephant thundered down the road and turned north, heading 
toward a big open field where some fortifications were under construction. 

Percy spit dust out of his mouth. “What the — ?” 

“Elephant,” Hazel explained. 

“Yeah, I read the sign. Why do you have an elephant in a bulletproof 
vest?” 

“War games tonight," Hazel said. “That’s Hannibal. If we didn’t include 
him, he'd get upset.” 

“We can't have that.” 

Hazel laughed. It was hard to believe she’d looked so moody a 
moment ago. Percy wondered what she’d been about to say. She had a 
brother. Yet she had claimed she'd be alone if the camp sorted her by her 
godly parent. 

Percy couldn’t figure her out. She seemed nice and easy going, 
mature for somebody who couldn't have been more than thirteen. But she 
also seemed to be hiding a deep sadness, like she felt guilty about 
something. 

Hazel pointed south across the river. Dark clouds were gathering over 
Temple Hill. Red flashes of lightning washed the monuments in blood- 
colored light. 

“Octavian is busy,” Hazel said. “We'd better get over there.” 




On the way, they passed some goat-legged guys hanging out on the side 
of the road. 

“Hazel!” one of them cried. 

He trotted over with a big grin on his face. He wore a faded Hawaiian 
shirt and nothing for pants except thick brown goat fur. His massive Afro 
jiggled. His eyes were hidden behind little round rainbow-tinted glasses. 
He held a cardboard sign that read: will work sins w: go away for 
denarii. 

“Hi, Don,” Hazel said. “Sorry, we don't have time — ” 

“Oh, that’s cool! That's cool!” Don trotted along with them. “Hey, this 
guy's new!" He grinned at Percy. “Do you have three denarii for the bus? 
Because I left my wallet at home, and I've got to get to work, and — ” 

“Don,” Hazel chided. “Fauns don’t have wallets. Or jobs. Or homes. 
And we don't have buses.” 

“Right,” he said cheerfully, “but do you have denarii?” 

“Your name is Don the Faun?” Percy asked. 

“Yeah. So?” 

“Nothing.” Percy tried to keep a straight face. “Why don’t fauns have 
jobs? Shouldn't they work for the camp?” 

Don bleated. “Fauns! Work for the camp! Hilarious!” 

“Fauns are, urn, free spirits,” Hazel explained. “They hang out here 
because, well, it’s a safe place to hang out and beg. We tolerate them, but 

“Oh, Hazel is awesome,” Don said. “She’s so nice! All the other 
campers are like, 'Go away, Don.' But she’s like, ‘Please go away, Don.’ I 
love her!” 

The faun seemed harmless, but Percy still found him unsettling. He 
couldn't shake the feeling that fauns should be more than just homeless 
guys begging for denarii. 

Don looked at the ground in front of them and gasped. “Score!” 

He reached for something, but Hazel screamed, “Don, no!” 

She pushed him out of the way and snatched up a small shiny object. 
Percy caught a glimpse of it before Hazel slipped it into her pocket. He 




could have sworn it was a diamond. 

“Come on, Hazel," Don complained. “I could’ve bought a year’s worth 
of doughnuts with that!” 

“Don, please,” Hazel said. “Go away.” 

She sounded shaken, like she'd just saved Don from a charging 
bulletproof elephant. 

The faun sighed. “Aw, I can’t stay mad at you. But I swear, it’s like 
you're good luck. Every time you walk by — ” 

“Good-bye, Don,” Hazel said quickly. “Let’s go, Percy.” 

She started jogging. Percy had to sprint to catch up. 

“What was that about?” Percy asked. “That diamond in the road — ” 
"Please,” she said. "Don't ask.” 

They walked in uneasy silence the rest of the way to TempleHill. A 
crooked stone path led past a crazy assortment of tiny altars and massive 
domed vaults. Statues of gods seemed to follow Percy with their eyes. 

Hazel pointed out the Temple of Bellona. “Goddess of war,” she said. 
“That's Reyna’s mom.” Then they passed a massive red crypt decorated 
with human skulls on iron spikes. 

"Please tell me we're not going in there,” Percy said. 

Hazel shook her head. “That's the Temple of Mars Ultor.” 

“Mars ... Ares, the war god?” 

“That's his Greek name,” Hazel said. “But, yeah, same guy. Ultor 
means ‘the Avenger.' He's the second-most important god of Rome.” 

Percy wasn’t thrilled to hear that. For some reason, just looking at the 
ugly red building made him feel angry. 

He pointed toward the summit. Clouds swirled over the largest temple, 
a round pavilion with a ring of white columns supporting a domed roof. “I’m 
guessing that's Zeus — uh, I mean, Jupiter’s? That’s where we’re heading?” 
"Yeah.” Hazel sounded edgy. “Octavian reads auguries there — the 
Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus.” 

Percy had to think about it, but the Latin words clicked into English. 
“Jupiter. ..the best and the greatest?” 

“Right.” 




“What's Neptune’s title?” Percy asked. “The coolest and most 
awesome?” 

"Urn, not quite.” Hazel gestured to a small blue building the size of a 
toolshed. A cobweb-covered trident was nailed above the door. 

Percy peeked inside. On a small altar sat a bowl with three dried-up, 
moldy apples. 

His heart sank. “Popular place.” 

“I’m sorry, Percy,” Hazel said. “It’s just. ..Romans were always scared 
of the sea. They only used ships if they had to. Even in modern times, 
having a child of Neptune around has always been a bad omen. The last 
time one joined the legion 

...well, it was 1906, when Camp Jupiter was located across the bay in 
San Francisco. There was this huge earthquake — ” 

"You're telling me a child of Neptune caused that?” 

“So they say.” Hazel looked apologetic. “Anyway... 

Romans fear Neptune, but they don’t love him much.” Percy stared at 
the cobwebs on the trident. Great, he thought. Even if he joined the camp, 
he would never be loved. His best hope was to be scary to his new 
campmates. Maybe if he did really well, they'd give him some moldy 
apples. 

Still... standing at Neptune’s altar, he felt something stirring inside him, 
like waves rippling through his veins. 

He reached in his backpack and dug out the last bit of food from his 
trip — a stale bagel. It wasn't much, but he set it on the altar. 

“Hey...uh, Dad.” He felt pretty stupid talking to a bowl of fruit. “If you 
can hear me, help me out, okay? Give me my memory back. Tell me — tell 
me what to do.” 

His voice cracked. He hadn’t meant to get emotional, but he was 
exhausted and scared, and he’d been lost for so long, he would’ve given 
anything for some guidance. He wanted to know something about his life 
for sure, without grabbing for missing memories. 

Hazel put her hand on his shoulder. “It’ll be okay. You're here now. 
You're one of us.” 

He felt awkward, depending on an eighth-grade girl he barely knew for 




comfort, but he was glad she was there. 

Above them, thunder rumbled. Red lightning lit up the hill. 

“Octavian's almost done,” Hazel said. “Let’s go.” 

Compared to Neptune’s tool shed, Jupiter’s temple was definitely optimus 
and maximus. 

The marble floor was etched with fancy mosaics and Latin 
inscriptions. Sixty feet above, the domed ceiling sparkled gold. The whole 
temple was open to the wind. 

In the center stood a marble altar, where a kid in a toga was doing 
some sort of ritual in front of a massive golden statue of the big dude 
himself: Jupiter the sky god, dressed in a silk XXXL purple toga, holding a 
lightning bolt. 

“It doesn't look like that,” Percy muttered. 

"What?” Hazel asked. 

"The master bolt,” Percy said. 

“What are you talking about?” 

“I — ” Percy frowned. For a second, he’d thought he remembered 
something. Now it was gone. “Nothing, I guess.” 

The kid at the altar raised his hands. More red lightning flashed in the 
sky, shaking the temple. Then he put his hands down, and the rumbling 
stopped. The clouds turned from gray to white and broke apart. 

A pretty impressive trick, considering the kid didn’t look like much. He 
was tall and skinny, with straw-colored hair, oversized jeans, a baggy T- 
shirt, and a drooping toga. He looked like a scarecrow wearing a bed 
sheet. 

“What's he doing?” Percy murmured. 

The guy in the toga turned. He had a crooked smile and a slightly crazy 
look in his eyes, like he’d just been playing an intense video game. In one 
hand he held a knife. In the other hand was something like a dead animal. 
That didn't make him look any less crazy. 

“Percy,” Hazel said, “this is Octavian.” 

“The graecus!” Octavian announced. “How interesting.” 




“Uh, hi,” Percy said. “Are you killing small animals?” 

Octavian looked at the fuzzy thing in his hand and laughed. “No, no. 
Once upon a time, yes. We used to read the will of the gods by examining 
animal guts — chickens, goats, that sort of thing. Nowadays, we use these.” 

He tossed the fuzzy thing to Percy. It was a disemboweled teddy bear. 
Then Percy noticed that there was a whole pile of mutilated stuffed animals 
at the foot of Jupiter’s statue. 

“Seriously?” Percy asked. 

Octavian stepped off the dais. He was probably about eighteen, but so 
skinny and sickly pale, he could've passed for younger. At first he looked 
harmless, but as he got closer, Percy wasn’t so sure. Octavian’s eyes 
glittered with harsh curiosity, like he might gut Percy just as easily as a 
teddy bear if he thought he could learn something from it. 

Octavian narrowed his eyes. "You seem nervous.” 

"You remind me of someone,” Percy said. “I can't remember who.” 

"Possibly my namesake, Octavian — Augustus Caesar. Everyone says 
I bear a remarkable resemblance.” 

Percy didn't think that was it, but he couldn't pin down the memory. 
“Why did you call me ‘the Greek'?” 

“I saw it in the auguries.” Octavian waved his knife at the pile of stuffing 
on the altar. “The message said: The Greek has arrived. Or possibly: The 
goose has cried. I'm thinking the first interpretation is correct. You seek to 
join the legion?” 

Hazel spoke for him. She told Octavian everything that had happened 
since they met at the tunnel — the gorgons, the fight at the river, the 
appearance of Juno, their conversation with Reyna. 

When she mentioned Juno, Octavian looked surprised. 

“Juno,” he mused. “We call her Juno Moneta. Juno the Warner. She 
appears in times of crisis, to counsel Rome about great threats.” 

He glanced at Percy, as if to say: like mysterious Greeks, for 
instance. 

“I hear the Feast of Fortuna is this week,” Percy said. “The gorgons 
warned there’d be an invasion on that day. Did you see that in your 
stuffing?” 




“Sadly, no.” Octavian sighed. “The will of the gods is hard to discern. 
And these days, my vision is even darker.” 

"Don't you have... I don't know,” Percy said, “an oracle or something?” 
"An oracle!” Octavian smiled. “What a cute idea. No, I’m afraid we're 
fresh out of oracles. Now, if we'd gone questing for the Sibylline books, like 
I recommended — ” 

"The Siba-what?” Percy asked. 

"Books of prophecy,” Hazel said, “which Octavian is obsessed with. 
Romans used to consult them when disasters happened. Most people 
believe they burned up when Rome fell.” 

“Some people believe that,” Octavian corrected. “Unfortunately our 
present leadership won’t authorize a quest to look for them — ” 

“Because Reyna isn't stupid,” Hazel said. 

“ — so we have only a few remaining scraps from the books,” Octavian 
continued. “A few mysterious predictions, like these.” 

He nodded to the inscriptions on the marble floor. Percy stared at the 
lines of words, not really expecting to understand them. He almost choked. 

“That one.” He pointed, translating as he read aloud:“Seven half- 
bloods shall ansv\erthe call. To storm or fire the world must fall — ” 

"Yes, yes.” Octavian finished it without looking: “An oath to keep \/\ith a 
final breath, and foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.” 

“I — I know that one." Percy thought thunder was shaking the temple 
again. Then he realized his whole body was trembling. “That's important.’’ 
Octavian arched an eyebrow. “Of course it’s important. We call it the 
Prophecy of Seven, but it’s several thousand years old. We don’t know 
what it means. Every time someone tries to interpret it... Well, Hazel can 
tell you. Bad things happen.” 

Hazel glared at him. “Just read the augury for Percy. Can he join the 
legion or not?” 

Percy could almost see Octavian's mind working, calculating whether 
or not Percy would be useful. He held out his hand for Percy’s backpack. 
“That's a beautiful specimen. May I?” 

Percy didn’t understand what he meant, but Octavian snatched the 




Bargain Mart panda pillow that was sticking out of the top of his pack. It 
was just a silly stuffed toy, but Percy had carried it a long way. He was kind 
of fond of it. Octavian turned toward the altar and raised his knife. 

“Hey!” Percy protested. 

Octavian slashed open the panda's belly and poured its stuffing over 
the altar. He tossed the panda carcass aside, muttered a few words over 
the fluff, and turned with a big smile on his face. 

“Good news!” he said. “Percy may join the legion. We’ll assign him a 
cohort at evening muster. Tell Reyna that I approve.” 

Hazel's shoulders relaxed. “Uh... great. Come on, Percy.” 

“Oh, and Hazel,” Octavian said. “I’m happy to welcome Percy into the 
legion. But when the election for praetor comes up, I hope you'll remember 

“Jason isn’t dead,” Hazel snapped. "You're the augur. You're 
supposed to be looking for him!” 

“Oh, I am!” Octavian pointed at the pile of gutted stuffed animals. “I 
consult the gods every day! Alas, after eight months, I’ve found nothing. Of 
course, I’m still looking. But if Jason doesn’t return by the Feast of Fortuna, 
we must act. We can’t have a power vacuum any longer. I hope you'll 
support me for praetor. It would mean so much to me.” 

Hazel clenched her fists. “Me. Support. You?” 

Octavian took off his toga, setting it and his knife on the altar. Percy 
noticed seven lines on Octavian's arm — seven years of camp, Percy 
guessed. Octavian's mark was a harp, the symbol of Apollo. 

“After all,” Octavian told Hazel, “I might be able to help you. It would be 
a shame if those awful rumors about you kept circulating... or, gods forbid, 
if they turned out to be true.” 

Percy slipped his hand into his pocket and grabbed his pen. This guy 
was blackmailing Hazel. That was obvious. One sign from Hazel, and 
Percy was ready to bust out Riptide and see how Octavian liked being at 
the other end of a blade. 

Hazel took a deep breath. Her knuckles were white. “I’ll think about it.” 

“Excellent,” Octavian said. “By the way, your brother is here.” 

Hazel stiffened. “My brother? Why?” 




Octavian shrugged. “Why does your brother do anything ? He's waiting 
for you at your father's shrine. Just. ..ah, don't invite him to stay too long. He 
has a disturbing effect on the others. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to 
keep searching for our poor lost friend, Jason. Nice to meet you, Percy.” 

Hazel stormed out of the pavilion, and Percy followed. He was sure 
he'd never been so glad to leave a temple in his life. 

As Hazel marched down the hill, she cursed in Latin. Percy didn't 
understand all of it, but he got son of a gorgon, pov&r-hungry snake, and a 
few choice suggestions about where Octavian could stick his knife. 

“I hate that guy,” she muttered in English. “If I had my way — ” 

“He won't really get elected praetor, will he?” Percy asked. 

“I wish I could be certain. Octavian has a lot of friends, most of them 
bought. The rest of the campers are afraid of him.” 

"Afraid of that skinny little guy?” 

"Don't underestimate him. Reyna's not so bad by herself, but if 
Octavian shares her power...” Hazel shuddered. “Let’s go see my brother. 
He'll want to meet you.” 

Percy didn’t argue. He wanted to meet this mysterious brother, maybe 
learn something about Hazel’s background — who her dad was, what 
secret she was hiding. Percy couldn’t believe she’d done anything to be 
guilty about. She seemed too nice. But Octavian had acted like he had 
some first-class dirt on her. 

Hazel led Percy to a black crypt built into the side of the hill. Standing 
in front was a teenage boy in black jeans and an aviator jacket. 

“Hey,” Hazel called. “I've brought a friend.” 

The boy turned. Percy had another one of those weird flashes: like this 
was somebody he should know. The kid was almost as pale as Octavian, 
but with dark eyes and messy black hair. He didn't look anything like Hazel. 
He wore a silver skull ring, a chain for a belt, and a black T-shirt with skull 
designs. At his side hung a pure-black sword. 

For a microsecond when he saw Percy, the boy seemed shocked — 
panicked even, like he'd been caught in a searchlight. 




"This is Percy Jackson,” Hazel said. “He’s a good guy. Percy, this is 
my brother, the son of Pluto.” 

The boy regained his composure and held out his hand. “Pleased to 
meet you,” he said. “I’m Nico di Angelo.” 




V 



HAZEL 



Hazel felt like shed just introduced two nuclear bombs. Now she was 
waiting to see which one exploded first. 

Until that morning, her brother Nico had been the most powerful 
demigod she knew. The others at Camp Jupiter saw him as a traveling 
oddball, about as harmless as the fauns. Hazel knew better. She hadn’t 
grown up with Nico, hadn’t even known him very long. But she knew Nico 
was more dangerous than Reyna, or Octavian, or maybe even Jason. 

Then she’d met Percy. 

At first, when she saw him stumbling up the highway with the old lady in 
his arms, Hazel had thought he might be a god in disguise. Even though he 
was beat up, dirty, and stooped with exhaustion, he’d had an aura of 
power. He had the good looks of a Roman god, with sea-green eyes and 
wind blown black hair. 

She'd ordered Frank not to fire on him. She thought the gods might be 
testing them. She’d heard myths like that: a kid with an old lady begs for 
shelter, and when the rude mortals refuse — boom, they get turned into 
banana slugs. 

Then Percy had controlled the river and destroyed the gorgons. He’d 
turned a pen into a bronze sword. He’d stirred up the whole camp with talk 
about the graecus. 

A son of the sea god... 

Long ago, Hazel had been told that a descendant of Neptune would 
save her. But could Percy really take away her curse? It seemed too much 



to hope for. 

Percy and Nico shook hands. They studied each other warily, and 
Hazel fought the urge to run. If these two busted out the magic swords, 
things could get ugly. 

Nico didn’t appear scary. He was skinny and sloppy in his rumpled 
black clothes. His hair, as always, looked like he'd just rolled out of bed. 

Hazel remembered when she’d met him. The first time she’d seen him 
draw that black sword of his, she'd almost laughed. The way he called it 
“Stygian iron,” all serious-like — he’d looked ridiculous. This scrawny white 
boy was no fighter. She certainly hadn't believed they were related. 

She had changed her mind about that quick enough. 

Percy scowled. “I — I know you.” 

Nico raised his eyebrows. "Do you?” He looked at Hazel for 
explanation. 

Hazel hesitated. Something about her brother’s reaction wasn’t right. 
He was trying hard to act casual, but when he had first seen Percy, Hazel 
had noticed his momentary look of panic. Nico already knew Percy. She 
was sure of it. Why was he pretending otherwise? 

Hazel forced herself to speak. “Urn. ..Percy’s lost his memory.” She 
told her brother what had happened since Percy had arrived at the gates. 

“So, Nico...” she continued carefully, “I thought... you know, you travel 
all over. Maybe you've met demigods like Percy before, or...” 

Nico's expression turned as dark as Tartarus. Hazel didn’t understand 
why, but she got the message: Drop it. 

"This story about Gaea's army,” Nico said. “You warned Reyna?” 

Percy nodded. “Who is Gaea, anyway?” 

Hazel's mouth went dry. Just hearing that name... It was all she could 
do to keep her knees from buckling. She remembered a woman's soft 
sleepy voice, a glowing cave, and feeling her lungs fill with black oil. 

“She's the earth goddess.” Nico glanced at the ground as if it might be 
listening. “The oldest goddess of all. She’s in a deep sleep most of the 
time, but she hates the gods and their children.” 

“Mother Earth. ..is evil?” Percy asked. 




"Very,” Nico said gravely. “She convinced her son, the Titan Kronos — 
um, I mean, Saturn — to kill his dad, Uranus, and take over the world. The 
Ttans ruled for a long time. Then the Ttans' children, the Olympian gods, 
overthrew them.” 

“That story seems familiar,” Percy sounded surprised, like an old 
memory had partially surfaced. “But I don’t think I ever heard the part about 
Gaea.” 

Nico shrugged. “She got mad when the gods took over. She took a 
new husband — Tartarus, the spirit of the abyss — and gave birth to a race 
of giants. They tried to destroy Mount Olympus, but the gods finally beat 
them. At least... the first time.” 

"The first time?” Percy repeated. 

Nico glanced at Hazel. He probably wasn't meaning to make her feel 
guilty, but she couldn't help it. If Percy knew the truth about her, and the 
horrible things she'd done... 

“Last summer,” Nico continued, “Saturn tried to make a comeback. 
There was a second Ttan war. The Romans at Camp Jupiter stormed his 
headquarters on Mount Othrys, across the bay, and destroyed his throne. 
Saturn disappeared — ” He hesitated, watching Percy’s face. Hazel got the 
feeling her brother was nervous that more of Percy’s memory might come 
back. 

"Um, anyway,” Nico continued, “Saturn probably faded back to the 
abyss. We all thought the war was over. Now it looks like the Ttans’ defeat 
stirred up Gaea. She’s starting to wake. I’ve heard reports of giants being 
reborn. If they mean to challenge the gods again, they’ll probably start by 
destroying the demigods....” 

“You've told Reyna this?” Percy asked. 

“Of course.” Nico's jaw tensed. “The Romans don’t trust me. That's 
why I was hoping she’d listen to you. Children of Pluto... well, no offense, 
but they think we're even worse than children of Neptune. We're bad luck.” 

“They let Hazel stay here,” Percy noted. 

“That's different,” Nico said. 

"Why?” 

"Percy,” Hazel cut in, “look, the giants aren't the worst problem. Even ... 




even Gaea isn't the worst problem. The thing you noticed about the 
gorgons, how they wouldn’t die, that’s our biggest worry.” She looked at 
Nico. She was getting dangerously close to her own secret now, but for 
some reason Hazel trusted Percy. Maybe because he was also an 
outsider, maybe because he'd saved Frank at the river. He deserved to 
know what they were facing. 

"Nico and I,” she said carefully, “we think that what's happening is... 
Death isn't — ” 

Before she could finish, a shout came from down the hill. 

Frank jogged toward them, wearing his jeans, purple camp shirt, and 
denim jacket. His hands were covered with grease from cleaning 
weapons. 

As it did every time she saw Frank, Hazel’s heart performed a little 
skip-beat tap-dance — which really irritated her. Sure, he was a good 
friend — one of the only people at camp who didn’t treat her as if she had a 
contagious disease. But she didn't like him in that way. 

He was three years older than she was, and he wasn’t exactly Prince 
Charming, with that strange combination of baby face and bulky wrestler's 
body. He looked like a cuddly koala bear with muscles. The fact that 
everyone always tried to pair them up — the tvio biggest losers at camp! 
You guys are perfect for each other— just made Hazel more determined 
not to like him. 

But her heart wasn’t with the program. It went nuts whenever Frank 
was around. She hadn't felt like that since ... well, since Sammy. 

Stop it, she thought. You're here for one reason — and it isn’t to get a 
new boyfriend. 

Besides, Frank didn't know her secret. If he knew, he wouldn't be so 
nice to her. 

He reached the shrine. “Hey, Nico...” 

“Frank.” Nico smiled. He seemed to find Frank amusing, maybe 
because Frank was the only one at camp who wasn’t uneasy around the 
children of Pluto. 

“Reyna sent me to get Percy,” Frank said. "Did Octavian accept you?” 

"Yeah,” Percy said. “He slaughtered my panda.” 




“He... Oh. The augury? Yeah, teddy bears must have nightmares about 
that guy. But you're in! We need to get you cleaned up before evening 
muster.” 

Hazel realized the sun was getting low over the hills. How had the day 
gone so fast? “You're right,” she said. “We'd better — ” 

"Frank,” Nico interrupted, “why don’t you take Percy down? Hazel and I 
will be along soon.” 

Uh-oh, Hazel thought. She tried not to look anxious. 

“That's — that's a good idea,” she managed. “Go ahead, guys. We'll 
catch up.” 

Percy looked at Nico one more time, as though he was still trying to 
place a memory. “I’d like to talk with you some more. I can’t shake the 
feeling — ” 

“Sure,” Nico agreed. “Later. I'll be staying overnight.” 

"You will?" Hazel blurted. The campers were going to love that — the 
son of Neptune and the son of Pluto arriving on the same day. Now all they 
needed was some black cats and broken mirrors. 

“Go on, Percy," Nico said. “Settle in.” He turned to Hazel, and she got 
the sense that the worst part of her day was yet to come. “My sister and I 
need to talk.” 

“You know him, don't you,” Hazel said. 

They sat on the roof of Pluto’s shrine, which was covered with bones 
and diamonds. As far as Hazel knew, the bones had always been there. 
The diamonds were her fault. If she sat anywhere too long, or just got 
anxious, they started popping up all around her like mushrooms after a 
rain. Several million dollars’ worth of stones glittered on the roof, but 
fortunately the other campers wouldn't touch them. They knew better than to 
steal from temples — especially Pluto's — and the fauns never came up 
here. 

Hazel shuddered, remembering her close call with Don that afternoon. 
If she hadn’t moved quickly and snatched that diamond off the road... She 
didn't want to think about it. She didn’t need another death on her 
conscience. 




Nico swung his feet like a little kid. His Stygian iron sword lay by his 
side, next to Hazel's spatha. He gazed across the valley, where 
construction crews were working in the Field of Mars, building fortifications 
for tonight’s games. 

"Percy Jackson.” He said the name like an incantation. “Hazel, I have 
to be careful what I say. Important things are at work here. Some secrets 
need to stay secret. You of all people — you should understand that.” 

Hazel's cheeks felt hot. “But he's not like... like me?” 

“No,” Nico said. “I’m sorry I can’t tell you more. I can't interfere. Percy 
has to find his own way at this camp.” 

"Is he dangerous?” she asked. 

Nico managed a dry smile. "Very. To his enemies. But he’s not a 
threat to Camp Jupiter. You can trust him.” 

“Like I trust you,” Hazel said bitterly. 

Nico twisted his skull ring. Around him, bones began to quiver as if 
they were trying to form a new skeleton. Whenever he got moody, Nico had 
that effect on the dead, kind of like Hazel’s curse. Between them, they 
represented Pluto’s two spheres of control: death and riches. Sometimes 
Hazel thought Nico had gotten the better end of the deal. 

"Look, I know this is hard,” Nico said. “But you have a second chance. 
You can make things right.” 

“Nothing about this is right,” Hazel said. “If they find out the truth about 
me — ” 

"They won’t,” Nico promised. “They’ll call a quest soon. They have to. 
You'll make me proud. Trust me, Bi — ” 

He caught himself, but Hazel knew what he'd almost called her: 
Bianca. Nico's real sister — the one he'd grown up with. Nico might care 
about Hazel, but she'd never be Bianca. Hazel was the simply the next best 
thing Nico could manage — a consolation prize from the Underworld. 

“I’m sorry,” he said. 

Hazel's mouth tasted like metal, as if gold nuggets were popping up 
under her tongue. "Then it’s true about Death? Is Alcyoneus to blame?” 

“I think so,” Nico said. “It’s getting bad in the Underworld. Dad’s going 
crazy trying to keep things under control. From what Percy said about the 




gorgons, things are getting worse up here, too. But look, that’s why you're 
here. All that stuff in your past — you can make something good come out of 
it. 

You belong at Camp Jupiter.” 

That sounded so ridiculous, Hazel almost laughed. She didn’t belong 
in this place. She didn't even belong in this century. 

She should have known better than to focus on the past, but she 
remembered the day when her old life had been shattered. The blackout hit 
her so suddenly, she didn't even have time to say, Uh-oh. She shifted back 
in time. Not a dream or a vision. The memory washed over her with such 
perfect clarity, she felt she was actually there. 

Her most recent birthday. She’d just turned thirteen. But not last 
December — December 17, 1941, the last day she had lived in New 
Orleans. 




V 1 



HAZEL 



Hazel was walking home alone from the riding stables. Despite the cold 
evening, she was buzzing with warmth. Sammy had just kissed her on the 
cheek. 

The day had been full of ups and downs. Kids at school had teased 
her about her mother, calling her a witch and a lot of other names. That had 
been going on for a long time, of course, but it was getting worse. Rumors 
were spreading about Hazel’s curse. The school was called St. Agnes 
Academy for Colored Children and Indians, a name that hadn’t changed in 
a hundred years. Just like its name, the place masked a whole lot of cruelty 
under a thin veneer of kindness. 

Hazel didn’t understand how other black kids could be so mean. They 
should’ve known better, since they themselves had to put up with name- 
calling all the time. But they yelled at her and stole her lunch, always asking 
for those famous jewels: “Where’s those cursed diamonds, girl? Gimme 
some or I’ll hurt you!” They pushed her away at the water fountain, and 
threw rocks at her if she tried to approach them on the playground. 

Despite how horrible they were, Hazel never gave them diamonds or 
gold. She didn't hate anyone that much. Besides, she had one friend — 
Sammy — and that was enough. 

Sammy liked to joke that he was the perfect St. Agnes student. He 
was Mexican American, so he considered himself colored and Indian. 
“They should give me a double scholarship,” he said. 

He wasn’t big or strong, but he had a crazy smile and he made Hazel 
laugh. 



That afternoon he'd taken her to the stables where he worked as a 
groom. It was a “whites only” riding club, of course, but it was closed on 
weekdays, and with the war on, there was talk that the club might have to 
shut down completely until the Japanese were whipped and the soldiers 
came back home. Sammy could usually sneak Hazel in to help take care of 
the horses. Once in a while they'd go riding. 

Hazel loved horses. They seemed to be the only living things that 
weren't scared of her. People hated her. Cats hissed. Dogs growled. Even 
the stupid hamster in Miss Finley’s classroom squeaked in terror when she 
gave it a carrot. But horses didn't mind. When she was in the saddle, she 
could ride so fast that there was no chance of gemstones cropping up in 
her wake. She almost felt free of her curse. 

That afternoon, she’d taken out a tan roan stallion with a gorgeous 
black mane. She galloped into the fields so swiftly, she left Sammy behind. 
By the time he caught up, he and his horse were both winded. 

“What are you running from?” He laughed. “I’m not that ugly, am I?” 

It was too cold for a picnic, but they had one anyway, sitting under a 
magnolia tree with the horses tethered to a split-rail fence. Sammy had 
brought her a cupcake with a birthday candle, which had gotten smashed 
on the ride but was still the sweetest thing Hazel had ever seen. They 
broke it in half and shared it. 

Sammy talked about the war. He wished he were old enough to go. He 
asked Hazel if she would write him letters if he were a soldier going 
overseas. 

“’Course, dummy,” she said. 

He grinned. Then, as if moved by a sudden impulse, he lurched 
forward and kissed her on the cheek. “Happy birthday, Hazel.” 

It wasn't much. Just one kiss, and not even on the lips. But Hazel felt 
like she was floating. She hardly remembered the ride back to the stables, 
or telling Sammy good-bye. He said, “See you tomorrow,” like he always 
did. But she would never see him again. 

By the time she got back to the French Quarter, it was getting dark. As 
she approached home, her warm feeling faded, replaced by dread. 

Hazel and her mother — Queen Marie, she liked to be called — lived in 




an old apartment above a jazz club. Despite the beginning of the war, there 
was a festive mood in the air. New recruits would roam the streets, 
laughing and talking about fighting the Japanese. They’d get tattoos in the 
parlors or propose to their sweethearts right on the sidewalk. Some would 
go upstairs to Hazel's mother to have their fortunes read or to buy charms 
from Marie Levesque, the famous grisgris queen. 

"Did you hear?” one would say. “Two bits for this good-luck charm. I 
took it to a guy I know, and he says it's a real silver nugget. Worth twenty 
dollars! That voodoo woman is crazy!” 

For a while, that kind of talk brought Queen Marie a lot of business. 
Hazel's curse had started out slowly. At first it seemed like a blessing. The 
precious stones and gold only appeared once in a while, never in huge 
quantities. QueenMarie paid her bills. They ate steak for dinner once a 
week. Hazel even got a new dress. But then stories started spreading. The 
locals began to realize how many horrible things happened to people who 
bought those good-luck charms or got paid with Queen Marie’s treasure. 
Charlie Gasceaux lost his arm in a harvester while wearing a gold bracelet. 
Mr. Henry at the general store dropped dead from a heart attack after 
Queen Marie settled her tab with a ruby. 

Folks started whispering about Hazel — how she could find cursed 
jewels just by walking down the street. These days only out-of-towners 
came to visit her mother, and not so many of them, either. Hazel’s mom 
had become short-tempered. She gave Hazel resentful looks. 

Hazel climbed the stairs as quietly as she could, in case her mother 
had a customer. In the club downstairs, the band was tuning their 
instruments. The bakery next door had started making beignets for 
tomorrow morning, filling the stairwell with the smell of melting butter. 

When she got to the top, Hazel thought she heard two voices inside 
the apartment. But when she peeked into the parlor, her mother was sitting 
alone at the seance table, her eyes closed, as if in a trance. 

Hazel had seen her that way many times, pretending to talk to spirits 
for her clients — but not ever when she was by herself. Queen Marie had 
always told Hazel her gris-gris was “bunk and hokum.” She didn't really 
believe in charms or fortune telling or ghosts. She was just a performer, 
like a singer or an actress, doing a show for money. 




But Hazel knew her mother did believe in some magic. Hazel’s curse 
wasn't hokum. Queen Marie just didn’t want to think it was her fault — that 
somehow she had made Hazel the way she was. 

“It was your blasted father,” Queen Marie would grumble in her darker 
moods. “Coming here in his fancy silver-and black suit. The one time I 
actually summon a spirit, and what do I get? Fulfills my wish and ruins my 
life. I should've been a real queen. It’s his fault you turned out this way.” 

She would never explain what she meant, and Hazel had learned not 
to ask about her father. It just made her mother angrier. 

As Hazel watched, Queen Marie muttered something to herself. Her 
face was calm and relaxed. Hazel was struck by how beautiful she looked, 
without her scowl and the creases in her brow. She had a lush mane of 
gold-brown hair like Hazel’s, and the same dark complexion, brown as a 
roasted coffee bean. She wasn’t wearing the fancy saffron robes or gold 
bangles she wore to impress clients — just a simple white dress. Still, she 
had a regal air, sitting straight and dignified in her gilded chair as if she 
really were a queen. 

“You'll be safe there,” she murmured. “Far from the gods.” 

Hazel stifled a scream. The voice coming from her mother's mouth 
wasn’t hers. It sounded like an older woman’s. The tone was soft and 
soothing, but also commanding — like a hypnotist giving orders. 

Queen Marie tensed. She grimaced in her trance, then spoke in her 
normal voice: “It's too far. Too cold. Too dangerous. He told me not to.” 

The other voice responded: “What has he ever done for you? He gave 
you a poisoned child! But we can use her gift for good. We can strike back 
at the gods. You will be under my protection in the north, far from the gods' 
domain. I'll make my son your protector. You'll live like a queen at last.” 
Queen Marie winced. "But what about Hazel...” 

Then her face contorted in a sneer. Both voices spoke in unison, as if 
they'd found something to agree on: “A poisoned child.” 

Hazel fled down the stairs, her pulse racing. 

At the bottom, she ran into a man in a dark suit. He gripped her 
shoulders with strong, cold fingers. 

“Easy, child,” the man said. 




Hazel noticed the silver skull ring on his finger, then the strange fabric 
of his suit. In the shadows, the solid black wool seemed to shift and boil, 
forming images of faces in agony, as if lost souls were trying to escape 
from the folds of his clothes. 

His tie was black with platinum stripes. His shirt was tombstone gray. 
His face — Hazel’s heart nearly leaped out of her throat. His skin was so 
white it looked almost blue, like cold milk. He had a flap of greasy black 
hair. His smile was kind enough, but his eyes were fiery and angry, full of 
mad power. Hazel had seen that look in the newsreels at the movie 
theater. This man looked like that awful Adolf Hitler. He had no mustache, 
but otherwise he could've been Hitler's twin — or his father. 

Hazel tried to pull away. Even when the man let go, she couldn’t seem 
to move. His eyes froze her in place. 

“Hazel Levesque,” he said in a melancholy voice. “You've grown.” 

Hazel started to tremble. At the base of the stairs, the cement stoop 
cracked under the man’s feet. A glittering stone popped up from the 
concrete like the earth had spit out a watermelon seed. The man looked at 
it, unsurprised. He bent down. 

"Don’t!” Hazel cried. “It’s cursed!” 

He picked up the stone — a perfectly formed emerald. “Yes, it is. But 
not to me. So beautiful... worth more than this building, I imagine.” He 
slipped the emerald in his pocket. “I’m sorry for your fate, child. I imagine 
you hate me.” 

Hazel didn’t understand. The man sounded sad, as if he were 
personally responsible for her life. Then the truth hither: a spirit in silver and 
black, who'd fulfilled her mother's wishes and ruined her life. 

Her eyes widened. “You? You're my...” 

He cupped his hand under her chin. “I am Pluto. Life is never easy for 
my children, but you have a special burden. Now that you’re thirteen, we 
must make provisions — ” 

She pushed his hand away. 

"You d/d this to me?” she demanded. “You cursed me and my mother? 
You left us alone?” 

Her eyes stung with tears. This rich white man in a fine suit was her 




father ? Now that she was thirteen, he showed up for the first time and said 
he was sorry? 

“You're evil!” she shouted. “You ruined our lives!” 

Pluto's eyes narrowed. “What has your mother told you, Hazel? Has 
she never explained her wish? Or told you why you were born under a 
curse?” 

Hazel was too angry to speak, but Pluto seemed to read the answers 
in her face. 

“No...” He sighed. “I suppose she wouldn't. Much easier to blame me.” 

“What do you mean?” 

Pluto sighed. “Poor child. You were born too soon. I cannot see your 
future clearly, but someday you will find your place. A descendant of 
Neptune will wash away your curse and give you peace. I fear, though, that 
is not for many years....” 

Hazel didn't follow any of that. Before she could respond, Pluto held 
out his hand. A sketchpad and a box of colored pencils appeared in his 
palm. 

“I understand you enjoy art and horseback riding,” he said. “These are 
for your art. As for the horse...” His eyes gleamed. “That, you’ll have to 
manage yourself. Now I must speak with your mother. Happy birthday, 
Hazel.” 

He turned and headed up the stairs — just like that, as if he'd checked 
Hazel off his “to do” list and had already forgotten her. Happy birthday. Go 
draw a picture. See you in another thirteen years. 

She was so stunned, so angry, so upside-down confused that she just 
stood paralyzed at the base of the steps. She wanted to throw down the 
colored pencils and stomp on them. She wanted to charge after Pluto and 
kick him. She wanted to run away, find Sammy, steal a horse, leave town 
and never come back. But she didn't do any of those things. 

Above her, the apartment door opened, and Pluto stepped inside. 

Hazel was still shivering from his cold touch, but she crep tup the stairs 
to see what he would do. What would he say to Queen Marie? Who would 
speak back — Hazel's mother, or that awful voice? 

When she reached the doorway, Hazel heard arguing. She peeked in. 




Her mother seemed back to normal — screaming and angry, throwing 
things around the parlor while Pluto tried to reason with her. 

“Marie, it’s insanity,” he said. “You’ll be far beyond my power to protect 
you.” 

"Protect me?” Queen Marie yelled. “When have you ever protected 
me?” 

Pluto's dark suit shimmered, as if the souls trapped in the fabric were 
getting agitated. 

"You have no idea,” he said. “I’ve kept you alive, you and the child. My 
enemies are everywhere among gods and men. Now with the war on, it will 
only get worse. You must stay where I can — ” 

"The police think I'm a murderer!” Queen Marie shouted. “My clients 
want to hang me as a witch! And Hazel — her curse is getting worse. Your 
protection is killing us.” 

Pluto spread his hands in a pleading gesture. “Marie, please — ” 

“No!” Queen Marie turned to the closet, pulled out a leather valise, and 
threw it on the table. “We’re leaving,” she announced. “You can keep your 
protection. We're going north.” 

“Marie, it’s a trap,” Pluto warned. “Whoever’s whispering in your ear, 
whoever's turning you against me — ” 

“You turned me against you!” She picked up a porcelain vase and 
threw it at him. It shattered on the floor, and precious stones spilled 
everywhere — emeralds, rubies, diamonds. Hazel's entire collection. 

"You won’t survive,” Pluto said. “If you go north, you’ll both die. I can 
foresee that clearly.” 

“Get out!” she said. 

Hazel wished Pluto would stay and argue. Whatever her mother was 
talking about, Hazel didn't like it. But her father slashed his hand across the 
air and dissolved into shadows... like he really was a spirit. 

Queen Marie closed her eyes. She took a deep breath. Hazel was 
afraid the strange voice might possess her again. But when she spoke, 
she was her regular self. 

“Hazel,” she snapped, “come out from behind that door.” 




Trembling, Hazel obeyed. She clutched the sketchpad and colored 
pencils to her chest. 

Her mother studied her like she was a bitter disappointment. A 
poisoned child, the voices had said. 

“Pack a bag,” she ordered. “We're moving.” 

"Wh-where?” Hazel asked. 

"Alaska,” Queen Marie answered. "You're going to make yourself 
useful. We're going to start a new life.” 

The way her mother said that, it sounded as if they were going to 
create a “new life” for someone else — or something else. 

“What did Pluto mean?” Hazel asked. “Is he really my father? He said 
you made a wish — ” 

“Go to your room!” her mother shouted. "Pack!” 

Hazel fled, and suddenly she was ripped out of the past. 

Nico was shaking her shoulders. “You did it again.” 

Hazel blinked. They were still sitting on the roof of Pluto's shrine. The 
sun was lower in the sky. More diamonds had surfaced around her, and 
her eyes stung from crying. 

“S-sorry,” she murmured. 

"Don't be,” Nico said. “Where were you?” 

“My mother's apartment. The day we moved.” 

Nico nodded. He understood her history better than most people 
could. He was also a kid from the 1 940s. He’d been born only a few years 
after Hazel, and had been locked away in a magic hotel for decades. But 
Hazel's past was much worse than Nico's. She'd caused so much damage 
and misery.... 

“You have to work on controlling those memories,” Nico warned. “If a 
flashback like that happens when you're in combat — ” 

“I know,” she said. “I’m trying.” 

Nico squeezed her hand. “It's okay. I think it’s a side effect from... you 
know, your time in the Underworld. Hopefully it’ll get easier.” 

Hazel wasn’t so sure. After eight months, the blackouts seemed to be 




getting worse, as if her soul were attempting to live in two different time 
periods at once. No one had ever come back from the dead before — at 
least, not the way she had. Nico was trying to reassure her, but neither of 
them knew what would happen. 

“I can’t go north again,” Hazel said. “Nico, if I have to go back to where 
it happened — ” 

"You'll be fine,” he promised. “You’ll have friends this time. Percy 
Jackson — he's got a role to play in this. You can sense that, can’t you? 
He's a good person to have at your side.” 

Hazel remembered what Pluto told her long ago: A descendant of 
Neptune will wash away your curse and give you peace. 

Was Percy the one? Maybe, but Hazel sensed it wouldn’t be so easy. 
She wasn't sure even Percy could survive what was waiting in the north. 

“Where did he come from?” she asked. “Why do the ghosts call him 
the Greek?” 

Before Nico could respond, horns blew across the river. The 
legionnaires were gathering for evening muster. 

“We'd better get down there,” Nico said. “I have a feeling tonight’s war 
games are going to be interesting.” 




V 1 I 



HAZEL 



ON THE WAY BACK HAZEL TRIPPED OVER A GOLD BAR 

She should have known not to run so fast, but she was afraid of being 
late for muster. The Fifth Cohort had the nicest centurions in camp. Still, 
even they would have to punish her if she was tardy. Roman punishments 
were harsh: scrubbing the streets with a toothbrush, cleaning the bull pens 
at the coliseum, getting sewn inside a sack full of angry weasels and 
dumped into the Little Tiber — the options were not great. 

The gold bar popped out of the ground just in time for her foot to hit it. 
Nico tried to catch her, but she took a spill and scraped her hands. 

“You okay?” Nico knelt next to her and reached for the bar of gold. 

“Don’t!” Hazel warned. 

Nico froze. “Right. Sorry. It’s just. ..jeez. That thing is huge .” He pulled a 
flask of nectar from his aviator jacket and poured a little on Hazel’s hands. 
Immediately the cuts started to heal. “Can you stand?” 

He helped her up. They both stared at the gold. It was the size of a 
bread loaf, stamped with a serial number and the words u.s. treasury. 

Nico shook his head. “How in Tartarus — ?” 

“I don't know,” Hazel said miserably. “It could’ve been buried there by 
robbers or dropped off a wagon a hundred years ago. Maybe it migrated 
from the nearest bank vault. Whatever’s in the ground, anywhere close to 
me — it just pops up. And the more valuable it is — ” 

“The more dangerous it is.” Nico frowned. “Should we cover it up? If 



the fauns find it...” 

Hazel imagined a mushroom cloud billowing up from the road, char- 
broiled fauns tossed in every direction. It was too horrible to consider. “It 
should sink back underground after I leave, eventually, but just to be 
sure...” 

She'd been practicing this trick, but never with something so heavy 
and dense. She pointed at the gold bar and tried to concentrate. 

The gold levitated. She channeled her anger, which wasn't hard — she 
hated that gold, she hated her curse, she hated thinking about her past and 
all the ways she'd failed. Her fingers tingled. The gold bar glowed with 
heat. 

Nico gulped. “Urn, Hazel, are you sure...?” 

She made a fist. The gold bent like putty. Hazel forced it to twist into a 
giant, lumpy ring. Then she flicked her hand toward the ground. Her million- 
dollar doughnut slammed into the earth. It sank so deep, nothing was left 
but a scar of fresh dirt. 

Nico's eyes widened. “That was... terrifying.” 

Hazel didn't think it was so impressive compared to the powers of a 
guy who could reanimate skeletons and bring people back from the dead, 
but it felt good to surprise him for a change. 

Inside the camp, horns blew again. The cohorts would be starting roll 
call, and Hazel had no desire to be sewn into a sack of weasels. 

“Hurry!” she told Nico, and they ran for the gates. 

The first time Hazel had seen the legion assemble, she’d been so 
intimidated, she’d almost slunk back to the barracks to hide. Even after 
being at camp for nine months, she still found it an impressive sight. 

The first four cohorts, each forty kids strong, stood in rows in front of 
their barracks on either side of the Via Praetoria. The Fifth Cohort 
assembled at the very end, in front of the principia, since their barracks 
were tucked in the back corner of camp next to the stables and the latrines. 
Hazel had to run right down the middle of the legion to reach her place. 

The campers were dressed for war. Their polished chain mail and 
greaves gleamed over purple T-shirts and jeans. Sword-and-skull designs 




decorated their helmets. Even their leather combat boots looked ferocious 
with their iron cleats, great for marching through mud or stomping on faces. 

In front of the legionnaires, like a line of giant dominoes, stood their 
red and gold shields, each the size of a refrigerator door. Every 
legionnaire carried a harpoonlike spear called a pilum, a gladius, a 
dagger, and about a hundred pounds of other equipment. If you were out of 
shape when you came to the legion, you didn't stay that way for long. Just 
walking around in your armor was a full-body workout. 

Hazel and Nico jogged down the street as everyone was coming to 
attention, so their entrance was really obvious. Their footsteps echoed on 
the stones. Hazel tried to avoid eye contact, but she caught Octavian at the 
head of the First Cohort smirking at her, looking smug in his plumed 
centurion's helmet with a dozen medals pinned on his chest. 

Hazel was still seething from his blackmail threats earlier. Stupid 
augur and his gift of prophecy — of all the people at camp to discover her 
secrets, why did it have to be him'? She was sure he would have told on 
her weeks ago, except that he knew her secrets were worth more to him as 
leverage. She wished she'd kept that bar of gold so she could hit him in the 
face with it. 

She ran past Reyna, who was cantering back and forth on her 
pegasus Scipio — nicknamed Skippy because he was the color of peanut 
butter. The metal dogs Aurum and Argentum trotted at her side. Her purple 
officer's cape billowed behind her. 

“Hazel Levesque,” she called, "so glad you could join us.” 

Hazel knew better than to respond. She was missing most of her 
equipment, but she hurried to her place in line next to Frank and stood at 
attention. Their lead centurion, a big seventeen-year-old guy named 
Dakota, was just calling her name — the last one on the roll. 

"Present!” she squeaked. 

Thank the gods. Technically, she wasn't late. 

Nico joined Percy Jackson, who was standing off to one side with a 
couple of guards. Percy’s hair was wet from the baths. He’d put on fresh 
clothes, but he still looked uncomfortable. Hazel couldn’t blame him. He 
was about to be introduced to two hundred heavily armed kids. 




The Lares were the last ones to fall in. Their purple forms flickered as 
they jockeyed for places. They had an annoying habit of standing hallway 
inside living people, so that the ranks looked like a blurry photograph, but 
finally the centurions got them sorted out. 

Octavian shouted, “Colors!” 

The standard-bearers stepped forward. They wore lion-skincapes and 
held poles decorated with each cohort’s emblems. The last to present his 
standard was Jacob, the legion's eagle bearer. He held a long pole with 
absolutely nothing on top. The job was supposed to be a big honor, but 
Jacob obviously hated it. Even though Reyna insisted on following 
tradition, every time the eagleless pole was raised, Hazel could feel 
embarrassment rippling through the legion. 

Reyna brought her pegasus to a halt. 

“Romans!” she announced. "You've probably heard about the incursion 
today. Two gorgons were swept into the river by this newcomer, Percy 
Jackson. Juno herself guided him here, and proclaimed him a son of 
Neptune.” 

The kids in the back rows craned their necks to see Percy. He raised 
his hand and said, “Hi.” 

“He seeks to join the legion,” Reyna continued. “What do the auguries 
say?” 

“I have read the entrails!” Octavian announced, as if he’d killed a lion 
with his bare hands rather than ripping up a stuffed panda pillow. "The 
auguries are favorable. He is qualified to serve!” 

The campers gave a shout: “Ave!”Hail! 

Frank was a little late with his “ave ,” so it came out as a high-pitched 
echo. The other legionnaires snickered. 

Reyna motioned the senior officers forward — one from each cohort. 
Octavian, as the most senior centurion, turned to Percy. 

“Recruit,” he asked, “do you have credentials? Letters of reference?” 

Hazel remembered this from her own arrival. A lot of kids brought 
letters from older demigods in the outside world, adults who were veterans 
of the camp. Some recruits had rich and famous sponsors. Some were 
third- or fourth-generation campers. A good letter could get you a position 




in the better cohorts, sometimes even special jobs like legion messenger, 
which made you exempt from the grunt work like digging ditches or 
conjugating Latin verbs. 

Percy shifted. “Letters? Urn, no.” 

Octavian wrinkled his nose. 

Unfair! Hazel wanted to shout. Percy had carried a goddess into 
camp. What better recommendation could you want? 

But Octavian’s family had been sending kids to camp for over a 
century. He loved reminding recruits that they were less important than he 
was. 

“No letters,” Octavian said regretfully. “Will any legionnaires stand for 
him?” 

“I will!” Frank stepped forward. “He saved my life!” 

Immediately there were shouts of protest from the other cohorts. 
Reyna raised her hand for quiet and glared at Frank. 

"Frank Zhang,” she said, “for the second time today, I remind you that 
you are on probatio. Your godly parent has not even claimed you yet. 
You're not eligible to stand for another camper until you’ve earned your first 
stripe.” 

Frank looked like he might die of embarrassment. 

Hazel couldn't leave him hanging. She stepped out of line and said, 
“What Frank means is that Percy saved both our lives. I am a full member 
of the legion. I will stand for Percy Jackson.” 

Frank glanced at her gratefully, but the other campers started to 
mutter. Hazel was barely eligible. She'd only gotten her stripe a few weeks 
ago, and the “act of valor" that earned it for her had been mostly an 
accident. Besides, she was a daughter of Pluto, and a member of the 
disgraced Fifth Cohort. She wasn’t doing Percy much of a favor by giving 
him her support. 

Reyna wrinkled her nose, but she turned to Octavian. The augur smiled 
and shrugged, like the idea amused him. 

Why not? Hazel thought. Putting Percy in the Fifth would make him 
less of a threat, and Octavian liked to keep all his enemies in one place. 

“Very well,” Reyna announced. “Hazel Levesque, you may stand for the 




recruit. Does your cohort accept him?” 

The other cohorts started coughing, trying not to laugh. Hazel knew 
what they were thinking: Another loser for the Fifth. 

Frank pounded his shield against the ground. The other members of 
the Fifth followed his lead, though they didn’t seem very excited. Their 
centurions, Dakota and Gwen, exchanged pained looks, like: Here we go 
again. 

"My cohort has spoken,” Dakota said. “We accept the recruit.” 

Reyna looked at Percy with pity. “Congratulations, Percy Jackson. You 
stand on probatio. You will be given a tablet with your name and cohort. In 
one year’s time, or as soon as you complete an act of valor, you will 
become a full member of the Twelfth Legion Fulminata. Serve Rome, obey 
the rules of the legion, and defend the camp with honor. Senatus 
Populusque Romanusf’ 

The rest of the legion echoed the cheer. 

Reyna wheeled her pegasus away from Percy, like she was glad to be 
done with him. Skippy spread his beautiful wings. Hazel couldn’t help 
feeling a pang of envy. She'd give anything fora horse like that, but it would 
never happen. Horses were for officers only, or barbarian cavalry, not for 
Roman legionnaires. 

“Centurions,” Reyna said, “you and your troops have one hour for 
dinner. Then we will meet on the Field of Mars. The First and Second 
Cohorts will defend. The Third, Fourth, and Fifth will attack. Good fortune!” 

A bigger cheer went up — for the war games and for dinner. The 
cohorts broke ranks and ran for the mess hall. 

Hazel waved at Percy, who made his way through the crowd with Nico 
at his side. To Hazel's surprise, Nico was beaming at her. 

“Good job, Sis,” he said. “That took guts, standing for him.” 

He had never called her S/s before. She wondered if that was what he 
had called Bianca. 

One of the guards had given Percy his probatio nameplate. Percy 
strung it on his leather necklace with the strange beads. 

"Thanks, Hazel,” he said. “Urn, what exactly does it mean — your 




standing for me?” 

“I guarantee your good behavior,” Hazel explained. “I teach you the 
rules, answer your questions, make sure you don't disgrace the legion.” 
“And ... if I do somethi ng wrong?” 

“Then I get killed along with you,” Hazel said. “Hungry? Let’s eat.” 




VIII 



HAZEL 



At least the camp food was good. Invisible wind spirits — aurae — waited on 
the campers and seemed to know exactly what everyone wanted. They 
blew plates and cups around so quickly, the mess hall looked like a 
delicious hurricane. If you got up too fast, you were likely to get beaned by 
beans or potted by a pot roast. 

Hazel got shrimp gumbo — her favorite comfort food. It made her think 
about being a little girl in New Orleans, before her curse set in and her 
mom got so bitter. Percy got a cheeseburger and a strange-looking soda 
that was bright blue. Hazel didn’t understand that, but Percy tried it and 
grinned. 

“This makes me happy,” he said. “I don’t know why. ..but it does.” 

Just for a moment, one of the aurae became visible — an elfin girl in a 
white silk dress. She giggled as she topped off Percy’s glass, then 
disappeared in a gust. 

The mess hall seemed especially noisy tonight. Laughter echoed off 
the walls. War banners rustled from cedar ceiling beams as aurae blew 
back and forth, keeping everyone’s plates full. The campers dined Roman 
style, sitting on couches around low tables. Kids were constantly getting up 
and trading places, spreading rumors about who liked whom and all the 
other gossip. 

As usual, the Fifth Cohort took the place of least honor. Their tables 
were at the back of the dining hall next to the kitchen. Hazel’s table was 
always the least crowded. Tonight it was she and Frank, as usual, with 



Percy and Nico and their centurion Dakota, who sat there, Hazel figured, 
because he felt obligated to welcome the new recruit. 

Dakota reclined glumly on his couch, mixing sugar into his drink and 
chugging it. He was a beefy guy with curly black hair and eyes that didn't 
quite line up straight, so Hazel felt like the world was leaning whenever she 
looked at him. It wasn’t a good sign that he was drinking so much so early 
in the night. 

“So.” He burped, waving his goblet. “Welcome to the Percy, party.” He 
frowned. "Party, Percy. Whatever.” 

“Urn, thanks,” Percy said, but his attention was focused on Nico. “I was 
wondering if we could talk, you know... about where I might have seen you 
before.” 

“Sure,” Nico said a little too quickly. “The thing is, I spend most of my 
time in the Underworld. So unless I met you there somehow — ” 

Dakota belched. "Ambassador from Pluto, they call him. Reyna's 
never sure what to do with this guy when he visits. 

You should have seen her face when he showed up with Hazel, asking 
Reyna to take her in. Urn, no offense.” 

“None taken.” Nico seemed relieved to change the topic. “Dakota was 
really helpful, standing for Hazel.” 

Dakota blushed. “Yeah, well. ..She seemed like a good kid. Turned out 
I was right. Last month, when she saved me from, uh, you know.” 

“Oh, man!” Frank looked up from his fish and chips. “Percy, you should 
have seen her! That’s how Hazel got her stripe. The unicorns decided to 
stampede — ” 

“It was nothing,” Hazel said. 

“Nothing?” Frank protested. “Dakota would've gotten trampled! You 
stood right in front of them, shooed them away, saved his hide. I’ve never 
seen anything like it.” 

Hazel bit her lip. She didn’t like to talk about it, and she felt 
uncomfortable, the way Frank made her sound like a hero. In truth, she'd 
been mostly afraid that the unicorns would hurt themselves in their panic. 
Their horns were precious metal — silver and gold — so she’d managed to 
turn them aside simply by concentrating, steering the animals by their 




horns and guiding them back to the stables. It had gotten her a full place in 
the legion, but it had also started rumors about her strange powers — 
rumors that reminded her of the bad old days. 

Percy studied her. Those sea-green eyes made her unsettled. 

“Did you and Nico grow up together?” he asked. 

“No,” Nico answered for her. “I found out that Hazel was my sister only 
recently. She's from New Orleans.” 

That was true, of course, but not the whole truth. Nico let people think 
he'd stumbled upon her in modern New Orleans and brought her to camp. 
It was easier than telling the real story. 

Hazel had tried to pass herself off as a modern kid. It wasn’t easy. 
Thankfully, demigods didn't use a lot of technology at camp. Their powers 
tended to make electronic gadgets go haywire. But the first time she went 
on furlough to Berkeley, she had nearly had a stroke. Televisions, 
computers, iPods, the Internet... It made her glad to get back to the world of 
ghosts, unicorns, and gods. That seemed much less of a fantasy than the 
twenty-first century. 

Nico was still talking about the children of Pluto. “There aren’t many of 
us,” he said, “so we have to stick together. When I found Hazel — ” 

“You have other sisters?” Percy asked, almost as if he knew the 
answer. Hazel wondered again when he and Nico had met, and what her 
brother was hiding. 

“One,” Nico admitted. “But she died. I saw her spirit a few times in the 
Underworld, except that the last time I went down there...” 

To bring her back, Hazel thought, though Nico didn't say that. 

“She was gone." Nico's voice turned hoarse. “She used to be in 
Elysium — like, the Underworld paradise — but she chose to be reborn into 
a new life. Now I’ll never see her again. I was just lucky to find Hazel. ..in 
New Orleans, I mean.” 

Dakota grunted. “Unless you believe the rumors. Not saying that I do.” 

“Rumors?” Percy asked. 

From across the room, Don the faun yelled, “Hazel!” 

Hazel had never been so glad to see the faun. He wasn’t allowed in 
camp, but of course he always managed to get in. He was working his way 




toward their table, grinning at everybody, sneaking food off plates, and 
pointing at campers: “Hey! Call me!” A flying pizza smacked him in the 
head, and he disappeared behind a couch. Then he popped up, still 
grinning, and made his way over. 

“My favorite girl!” He smelled like a wet goat wrapped in old cheese. 
He leaned over their couches and checked out their food. “Say, new kid, 
you going to eat that?” 

Percy frowned. “Aren't fauns vegetarian?” 

“Not the cheeseburger, man! The plate!” He sniffed Percy’s hair. 
“Hey. ..what's that smell?” 

"Don!” Hazel said. "Don't be rude.” 

“No, man, I just — ” 

Their house god Vitellius shimmered into existence, standing half 
embedded in Frank’s couch. “Fauns in the dining hall! What are we 
coming to? Centurion Dakota, do your duty!” 

"I am,” Dakota grumbled into his goblet. “I’m having dinner!” 

Don was still sniffing around Percy. “Man, you've got an empathy link 
with a faun!” 

Percy leaned away from him. “A what?” 

“An empathy link! It’s real faint, like somebody's suppressed it, but — ” 

“I know what!” Nico stood suddenly. “Hazel, how about we give you 
and Frank time to get Percy oriented? Dakota and I can visit the praetor's 
table. Don and Vitellius, you come too. We can discuss strategies for the 
war games.” 

“Strategies for losing?” Dakota muttered. 

"Death Boy is right!” Vitellius said. “This legion fights worse than we 
did in Judea, and that was the first time we lost our eagle. Why, if / were in 
charge — ” 

“Could I just eat the silverware first?” Don asked. 

“Let’s go!” Nico stood and grabbed Don and Vitellius by the ears. 

Nobody but Nico could actually touch the Lares. Vitellius spluttered 
with outrage as he was dragged off to the praetor's table. 

“Ow!” Don protested. “Man, watch the 'fro!” 




“Come on, Dakota!” Nico called over his shoulder. 

The centurion got up reluctantly. He wiped his mouth — uselessly, since 
it was permanently stained red. "Back soon.” He shook all over, like a dog 
trying to get dry. Then he staggered away, his goblet sloshing. 

“What was that about?” Percy asked. “And what's wrong with 
Dakota?” 

Frank sighed. “He’s okay. He’s a son of Bacchus, the wine god. He's 
got a drinking problem.” 

Percy’s eyes widened. "You let him drink wne ?” 

“Gods, no!” Hazel said. “That would be a disaster. He’s addicted to 
red Kool-Aid. Drinks it with three times the normal sugar, and he’s already 
ADHD — you know, attention deficit/hyperactive. One of these days, his 
head is going to explode.” 

Percy looked over at the praetor’s table. Most of the senior officers 
were in deep conversation with Reyna. Nico and his two captives, Don and 
Vitellius, stood on the periphery. Dakota was running back and forth along 
a line of stacked shields, banging his goblet on them like they were a 
xylophone. 

"ADHD,” Percy said. “You don't say.” 

Hazel tried not to laugh. “Well. ..most demigods are. Or dyslexic. Just 
being a demigod means that our brains are wired differently. Like you — 
you said you had trouble reading.” 

"Are you guys that way too?” Percy asked. 

“I don't know,” Hazel admitted. “Maybe. Back in my day, they just 
called kids like us ‘lazy.'” 

Percy frowned. “Back m your day?" 

Hazel cursed herself. 

Luckily for her, Frank spoke up: “I wish I was ADHD or dyslexic. All I 
got is lactose intolerance.” 

Percy grinned. “Seriously?” 

Frank might’ve been the silliest demigod ever, but Hazel thought he 
was cute when he pouted. His shoulders slumped. “And I love ice cream, 
too....” 




Percy laughed. Hazel couldn’t help joining in. It was good to sit at 
dinner and actually feel like she was among friends. 

“Okay, so tell me,” Percy said, “why is it bad to be in the Fifth Cohort? 
You guys are great.” 

The compliment made Hazel’s toes tingle. “It’s... complicated. Aside 
from being Pluto's kid, I want to ride horses.” 

“That's why you use a cavalry sword?” 

She nodded. “It’s stupid, I guess. Wishful thinking. There's only one 
pegasus at camp — Reyna's. The unicorns are just kept for medicine, 
because the shavings off their horns cure poison and stuff. Anyway, Roman 
fighting is always done on foot. Cavalry. ..they kind of look down on that. So 
they look down on me.” 

“Their loss,” Percy said. “What about you, Frank?” 

"Archery,” he muttered. “They don't like that either, unless you're a 
child of Apollo. Then you’ve got an excuse. I hope my dad is Apollo, but I 
don't know. I can’t do poetry very well. And I’m not sure I want to be related 
to Octavian.” 

“Can't blame you,” Percy said. “But you're excellent with the bow — the 
way you pegged those gorgons? Forget what other people think.” 

Frank's face turned as red as Dakota's Kool-Aid. “Wish I could. They 
all think I should be a sword fighter because I'm big and bulky." He looked 
down at his body, like he couldn’t quite believe it was his. “They say I’m too 
stocky for an archer. Maybe if my dad would ever claim me...” 

They ate in silence for a few minutes. A dad who wouldn’t claim you... 
Hazel knew that feeling. She sensed Percy could relate, too. 

“You asked about the Fifth,” she said at last. “Why it’s the worst cohort. 
That actually started way before us.” 

She pointed to the back wall, where the legion’s standards were on 
display. “See the empty pole in the middle?” 

“The eagle,” Percy said. 

Hazel was stunned. “How'd you know?” 

Percy shrugged. “Vitellius was talking about how the legion lost its 
eagle a long time ago — the frsftime, he said. He acted like it was a huge 
disgrace. I’m guessing that’s what's missing. And from the way you and 




Reyna were talking earlier, I’m guessing your eagle got lost a second time, 
more recently, and it had something to do with the Fifth Cohort.” 

Hazel made a mental note not to underestimate Percy again. When 
he'd first arrived, she’d thought he was a little goofy from the questions 
he'd asked — about the Feast of Tuna and all — but clearly he was smarter 
than he let on. 

“You're right,” she said. “That's exactly what happened.” 

“So what is this eagle, anyway? Why is it a big deal?” 

Frank looked around to make sure no one was eavesdropping. “It’s 
the symbol of the whole camp — a big eagle made of gold. It’s supposed to 
protect us in battle and make our enemies afraid. Each legion’s eagle 
gave it all sorts of power, and ours came from Jupiter himself. Supposedly 
Julius Caesar nicknamed our legion 'Fulminata' — armed with lightning — 
because of what the eagle could do.” 

“I don't like lightning,” Percy said. 

“Yeah, well,” Hazel said, “it didn’t make us invincible. The Twelfth lost 
its eagle the first time way back in ancient days, during the Jewish 
Rebellion.” 

"I think I saw a movie like that,” Percy said. 

Hazel shrugged. “Could be. There have been lots of books and 
movies about legions losing their eagles. Unfortunately it happened quite a 
few times. The eagle was so important. ..well, archaeologists have never 
recovered a single eagle from ancient Rome. Each legion guarded theirs 
to the last man, because it was charged with power from the gods. They'd 
rather hide it or melt it down than surrender it to an enemy. 

The Twelfth was lucky the first time. We got our eagle back. But the 
second time...” 

"You guys were there?” Percy asked. 

They both shook their heads. 

“I’m almost as new as you.” Frank tapped his probatio plate. “Just got 
here last month. But everyone’s heard the story. It’s bad luck to even talk 
about this. There was this huge expedition to Alaska back in the eighties. 

“That prophecy you noticed in the temple,” Hazel continued, “the one 




about the seven demigods and the Doors of Death? Our senior praetor at 
the time was Michael Varus, from the Fifth Cohort. Back then the Fifth was 
the best in camp. He thought it would bring glory to the legion if he could 
figure out the prophecy and make it come true — save the world from storm 
and fire and all that. He talked to the augur, and the augur said the answer 
was in Alaska. But he warned Michael it wasn’t time yet. The prophecy 
wasn't for him.” 

"But he went anyway,” Percy guessed. “What happened?” 

Frank lowered his voice. “Long, gruesome story. Almost the entire 
Fifth Cohort was wiped out. Most of legion’s Imperial gold weapons were 
lost, along with the eagle. The survivors went crazy or refused to talk about 
what had attacked them.” 

/ know. Hazel thought solemnly. But she kept silent. 

“Since the eagle was lost,” Frank continued, “the camp has been 
getting weaker. Quests are more dangerous. Monsters attack the borders 
more often. Morale is lower. The last month or so, things have been getting 
much worse, much faster.” 

“And the Fifth Cohort took the blame,” Percy guessed. “So now 
everyone thinks we're cursed.” 

Hazel realized her gumbo was cold. She sipped a spoonful, but the 
comfort food didn’t taste very comforting. “We've been the outcasts of the 
legion since... well, since the Alaska disaster. Our reputation got better 
when Jason became praetor — ” 

“The kid who's missing?” Percy asked. 

"Yeah,” Frank said. “I never met him. Before my time. But I hear he was 
a good leader. He practically grew up in the Fifth Cohort. He didn't care 
what people thought about us. He started to rebuild our reputation. Then he 
disappeared.” 

“Which put us back at square one,” Hazel said bitterly. “Made us look 
cursed all over again. I'm sorry, Percy. Now you know what you've gotten 
yourself into.” 

Percy sipped his blue soda and gazed thoughtfully across the dining 
hall. “I don’t even know where I come from. ..but I've got a feeling this isn't 
the first time I’ve been an underdog.” He focused on Hazel and managed a 




smile. “Besides, joining the legion is better than being chased through the 
wilderness by monsters. I’ve got myself some new friends. Maybe together 
we can turn things around for the Fifth Cohort, huh?” 

A horn blew at the end of the hall. The officers at the praetor’s table got 
to their feet — even Dakota, his mouth vampire-red from Kool-Aid. 

“The games begin!” Reyna announced. The campers cheered and 
rushed to collect their equipment from the stacks along the walls. 

“So we’re the attacking team?” Percy asked over the noise. “Is that 
good?” 

Hazel shrugged. “Good news: we get the elephant. Bad news — ” 

“Let me guess,” said Percy. “The Fifth Cohort always loses.” 

Frank slapped Percy on the shoulder. "I love this guy. Come on, new 
friend. Let’s go chalk up my thirteenth defeat in a row!” 




I X 



FRANK 



As he marched to the war games, Frank replayed the day in his mind. He 
couldn’t believe how close he'd come to death. 

That morning on sentry duty, before Percy showed up, Frank had 
almost told Hazel his secret. The two of them had been standing for hours 
in the chilly fog, watching the commuter traffic on Highway 24. Hazel had 
been complaining about the cold. 

“I’d give anything to be warm,” she said, her teeth chattering. “I wish we 
had a fire.” Even with her armor on, she looked great. Frank liked the way 
her cinnamon-toast-colored hair curled around the edges of her helmet, 
and the way her chin dimpled when she frowned. She was tiny compared 
to Frank, which made him feel like a big clumsy ox. He wanted to put his 
arms around her to warm her up, but he’d never do that. She’d probably hit 
him, and he’d lose the only friend he had at camp. 

I could make a really impressive fire, he thought. Of course, it would 
only burn for a few minutes, and then I’d die.... 

It was scary that he even considered it. Hazel had that effect on him. 
Whenever she wanted something, he had the irrational urge to provide it. 
He wanted to be the old-fashioned knight riding to her rescue, which was 
stupid, as she was way more capable at everything than he was. 

He imagined what his grandmother would say: Frank Zhang riding to 
the rescue? Ha! He’d fait off his horse and break his neck. 

Hard to believe it had been only six weeks since he'd left his 
grandmother’s house — six weeks since his mom’s funeral. 



Everything had happened since then: wolves arriving at his 
grandmother's door, the journey to Camp Jupiter, the weeks he'd spent in 
the Fifth Cohort trying not to be a complete failure. Through it all, he’d kept 
the half-burned piece of firewood wrapped in a cloth in his coat pocket. 

Keep it close, his grandmother had warned. As long as it is safe, you 
are safe. 

The problem was that it burned so easily. He remembered the trip 
south from Vancouver. When the temperature dropped below freezing near 
Mount Hood, Frank had brought out the piece of tinder and held it in his 
hands, imagining how nice it would be to have some fire. Immediately, the 
charred end blazed with a searing yellow flame. It lit up the night and 
warmed Frank to the bone, but he could feel his life slipping away, as if he 
were being consumed rather than the wood. He'd thrust the flame into a 
snowbank. For a horrible moment it kept burning. When it finally went out, 
Frank got his panic under control. He wrapped the piece of wood and put it 
back in his coat pocket, determined not to bring it out again. But he 
couldn't forget it. 

It was as though someone had said, “Whatever you do, don't think 
about that stick bursting into flame!” 

So of course, that’s all he thought about. 

On sentry duty with Hazel, he would try to take his mind off it. He loved 
spending time with her. He asked her about growing up in New Orleans, 
but she got edgy at his questions, so they made small talk instead. Just for 
fun, they tried to speak French to each other. Hazel had some Creole 
blood on her mother’s side. Frank had taken French in school. Neither of 
them was very fluent, and Louisiana French was so different from 
Canadian French it was almost impossible to converse. When Frank 
asked Hazel how her beef was feeling today, and she replied that his shoe 
was green, they decided to give up. 

Then Percy Jackson had arrived. 

Sure, Frank had seen kids fight monsters before. He’d fought plenty of 
them himself on his journey from Vancouver. But he’d never seen gorgons. 
He'd never seen a goddess in person. And the way Percy had controlled 
the Little Tiber — wow. Frank wished he had powers like that. 

He could still feel the qorqons’ claws pressinq into his arms and smell 




their snaky breath — like dead mice and poison. If not for Percy, those 
grotesque hags would have carried him away. He’d be a pile of bones in 
the back of a Bargain Mart by now. 

After the incident at the river, Reyna had sent Frank to the armory, 
which had given him way too much time to think. 

While he polished swords, he remembered Juno, warning them to 
unleash Death. 

Unfortunately Frank had a pretty good idea of what the goddess 
meant. He had tried to hide his shock when Juno had appeared, but she 
looked exactly like his grandmother had described — right down to the 
goatskin cape. 

She chose your path years ago, Grandmother had told him. And it wit 
not be easy. 

Frank glanced at his bow in the corner of the armory. He’d feel better if 
Apollo would claim him as a son. Frank had been sure his godly parent 
would speak up on his sixteenth birthday, which had passed two weeks 
ago. 

Sixteen was an important milestone for Romans, it had been Frank's 
first birthday at camp. But nothing had happened. Now Frank hoped he 
would be claimed on the Feast of Fortuna, though from what Juno had 
said, they'd be in a battle for their lives on that day. 

His fatherhadto be Apollo. Archery was the only thing Frank was 
good at. Years ago, his mother had told him that their family name, Zhang, 
meant “master of bows” in Chinese. That must have been a hint about his 
dad. 

Frank put down his polishing rags. He looked at the ceiling. "Please, 
Apollo, if you're my dad, tell me. I want to be an archer like you.” 

“No, you don't,” a voice grumbled. 

Frank jumped out of his seat. Vitellius, the Fifth Cohort’s Lar, was 
shimmering behind him. His full name was Gaius Vitellius Reticulus, but the 
other cohorts called him Vitellius the Ridiculous. 

“Hazel Levesque sent me to check on you,” Vitellius said, hiking up his 
sword belt. “Good thing, too. Look at the state of this armor!” 

Vitellius wasn't one to talk. His toga was baggy, his tunic barely fit over 




his belly, and his scabbard fell off his belt every three seconds, but Frank 
didn't bother pointing that out. 

"As for archers,” the ghost said, “they're wimps! Back in my day, 
archery was a job for barbarians. A good Roman should be in the fray, 
gutting his enemy with spear and sword like a civilized man! That’s how we 
did it in the Punic Wars. Roman up, boy!” 

Frank sighed. “I thought you were in Caesar's army.” 

“I was!” 

"Vitellius, Caesar was hundreds of years after the Punic Wars. You 
couldn't have been alive that long.” 

“Questioning my honor?” Vitellius looked so mad, his purple aura 
glowed. Fie drew his ghostly gladius and yelled, “Take that!” 

He ran the sword, which was about as deadly as a laser pointer, 
through Frank's chest a few times. 

“Ouch,” Frank said, just to be nice. 

Vitellius looked satisfied and put his sword away. “Perhaps you'll think 
twice about doubting your elders next time! Now.. .it was your sixteenth 
birthday recently, wasn’t it?” 

Frank nodded. He wasn’t sure how Vitellius knew this, since Frank 
hadn't told anyone except Hazel, but ghosts had ways of finding out 
secrets. Eavesdropping while invisible was probably one of them. 

“So that’s why you’re such a grumpy gladiator,” the Lar said. 
“Understandable. The sixteenth birthday is your day of manhood! Your 
godly parent should have claimed you, no doubt about it, even if with only a 
small omen. Perhaps he thought you were younger. You look younger, you 
know, with that pudgy baby face. ’’“Thanks for reminding me,” Frank 
muttered. 

"Yes, I remember my sixteenth,” Vitellius said happily. “Wonderful 
omen! A chicken in my underpants.” 

“Excuse me?” 

Vitellius puffed up with pride. “That’s right! I was at the river changing 
my clothes for my Liberalia. Rite of passage into manhood, you know. We 
did things properly back then. I'd taken off my childhood toga and was 
washing up to don the adult one. Suddenly a pure-white chicken ran out of 




nowhere, dove into my loincloth, and ran off with it. I wasn’t wearing it at the 
time.” 

“That's good,” Frank said. "And can I just say: Too much information?” 

“Mm.” Vitellius wasn’t listening. “That was the sign I was descended 
from Aesculapius, the god of medicine. I took my cognomen, my third 
name, Reticulus, because it meant undergarment, to remind me of the 
blessed day when a chicken stole my loincloth.” 

“So... your name means Mr. Underwear?” 

"Praise the gods! I became a surgeon in the legion, and the rest is 
history.” He spread his arms generously. “Don’t give up, boy. Maybe your 
father is running late. Most omens are not as dramatic as a chicken, of 
course. I knew a fellow once who got a dung beetle — ” 

"Thanks, Vitellius,” Frank said. "But I have to finish polishing this armor 

"And the gorgon's blood?” 

Frank froze. He hadn’t told anyone about that. As far as he knew, only 
Percy had seen him pocket the vials at the river, and they hadn’t had a 
chance to talk about it. 

“Come now,” Vitellius chided. “I’m a healer. I know the legends about 
gorgon's blood. Show me the vials.” 

Reluctantly, Frank brought out the two ceramic flask she’d retrieved 
from the Little Tiber. Spoils of war were often left behind when a monster 
dissolved — sometimes a tooth, or a weapon, or even the monster's entire 
head. Frank had known what the two vials were immediately. By tradition 
they belonged to Percy, who had killed the gorgons, but Frank couldn't help 
thinking, What if I could use them? 

"Yes.” Vitellius studied the vials approvingly. “Blood takenfrom the right 
side of a gorgon’s body can cure any disease, even bring the dead back 
to life. The goddess Minerva once gave a vial of it to my divine ancestor, 
Aesculapius. But blood taken from the left side of a gorgon — instantly fatal. 
So, which is which?” 

Frank looked down at the vials. “I don't know. They're identical.” 

“Ha! But you're hoping the right vial could solve your problem with the 
burned stick, eh? Maybe break your curse?” 




Frank was so stunned, he couldn’t talk. 

“Oh, don’t worry, boy.” The ghost chuckled. “I won’t tell anyone. I’m a 
Lar, a protector of the cohort! I wouldn’t do anything to endanger you.” 

“You stabbed me through the chest with your sword.” 

“Trust me, boy! I have sympathy for you, carrying the curse of that 
Argonaut.” 

"The ... what?” 

Vitellius waved away the question. “Don’t be modest. You've got 
ancient roots. Greek as well as Roman. It’s no wonder Juno — ” He tilted his 
head, as if listening to a voice from above. His face went slack. His entire 
aura flickered green. “But I've said enough! At any rate, I’ll let you work out 
who gets the gorgon's blood. I suppose that newcomer Percy could use it 
too, with his memory problem.” 

Frank wondered what Vitellius had been about to say and what had 
made him so scared, but he got the feeling that for once Vitellius was 
going to keep his mouth shut. 

He looked down at the two vials. He hadn’t even thought of Percy’s 
needing them. He felt guilty that he'd been intending to use the blood for 
himself. “Yeah. Of course. He should have it.” 

"Ah, but if you want my advice...” Vitellius looked up nervously again. 
"You should both wait on that gorgon blood. If my sources are right, you're 
going to need it on your quest.” 

“Quest?” 

The doors of the armory flew open. 

Reyna stormed in with her metal greyhounds. Vitellius vanished. He 
might have liked chickens, but he did not like the praetor's dogs. 

“Frank.” Reyna looked troubled. “That’s enough with the armor. Go find 
Hazel. Get Percy Jackson down here. He's been up there too long. I don't 
want Octavian. . .” She hesitated. “Just get Percy down here.” 

So Frank had run all the way to Temple Hill. 

Walking back, Percy had asked tons of questions about Hazel's 
brother, Nico, but Frank didn't know that much. 




“He's okay,” Frank said. “He's not like Hazel — ” 

“How do you mean?” Percy asked. 

“Oh, um...” Frank coughed. He'd meant that Hazel was better looking 
and nicer, but he decided not to say that. “Nico is kind of mysterious. He 
makes everybody else nervous, being the son of Pluto, and all.” 

"But not you?” 

Frank shrugged. “Pluto’s cool. It’s not his fault he runs the Underworld. 
He just got bad luck when the gods were dividing up the world, you know? 
Jupiter got the sky, Neptune got the sea, and Pluto got the shaft.” 

“Death doesn't scare you?” 

Frank almost wanted to laugh. Not at all! Got a match? 

Instead he said, “Back in the old times, like the Greek times, when 
Pluto was called Hades, he was more of a death god. When he became 
Roman, he got more... I don’t know, respectable. He became the god of 
wealth, too. Everything under the earth belongs to him. So I don’t think of 
him as being real scary.” 

Percy scratched his head. “How does a god become Roman? If he's 
Greek, wouldn't he stay Greek?” 

Frank walked a few steps, thinking about that. Vitellius would’ve given 
Percy an hour-long lecture on the subject, probably with a PowerPoint 
presentation, but Frank took his best shot. “The way Romans saw it, they 
adopted the Greek stuff and perfected it.” 

Percy made a sour face. “Perfected it? Like there was something 
wrong with it?” 

Frank remembered what Vitellius had said: You’ve got ancient roots. 
Greek as v\ell as Roman. His grandmother had said something similar. 

“I don’t know,” he admitted. “Rome was more successful than Greece. 
They made this huge empire. The gods became a bigger deal in Roman 
times — more powerful and widely known. That's why they’re still around 
today. So many civilizations base themselves on Rome. The gods 
changed to Roman because that’s where the center of power was. Jupiter 
was... well, more responsible as a Roman god than he had been when he 
was Zeus. Mars became a lot more important and disciplined.” 

"And Juno became a hippie bag lady,” Percy noted. “So you're saying 




the old Greek gods — they just changed permanently to Roman? There's 
nothing left of the Greek?” 

“Uh...” Frank looked around to make sure there were no campers or 
Lares nearby, but the main gates were still a hundred yards away. “That's a 
sensitive topic. Some people say Greek influence is still around, like it’s 
still a part of the gods' personalities. I've heard stories of demigods 
occasionally leaving Camp Jupiter. They reject Roman training and try to 
follow the older Greek style — like being solo heroes instead of working as 
a team the way the legion does. And back in the ancient days, when Rome 
fell, the eastern half of the empire survived — the Greek half.” 

Percy stared at him. “I didn't know that.” 

“It was called Byzantium.” Frank liked saying that word. It sounded 
cool. "The eastern empire lasted another thousand years, but it was always 
more Greek than Roman. For those of us who follow the Roman way, it’s 
kind of a sore subject. That’s why, whatever country we settle in, Camp 
Jupiter is always in the west — the Roman part of the territory. The east is 
considered bad luck.” 

“Huh.” Percy frowned. 

Frank couldn’t blame him for feeling confused. The Greek/Roman stuff 
gave him a headache, too. 

They reached the gates. 

“Ml take you to the baths to get you cleaned up,” Frank said. “But first... 
about those vials I found at the river.” 

“Gorgon's blood,” Percy said. “One vial heals. One is deadly poison.” 
Frank's eyes widened. “You knowaboul that? Listen, I wasn’t going to 
keep them. I just — ” 

"I know why you did it, Frank.” 

“You do?” 

“Yeah.” Percy smiled. “If I'd come into camp carrying a vial of poison, 
that would've looked bad. You were trying to protect me.” 

“Oh. ..right.” Frank wiped the sweat off his palms. “But if we could 
figure out which vial was which, it might heal your memory.” 

Percy’s smile faded. He gazed across the hills. “Maybe. ..I guess. But 
you should hang on to those vials for now. There’s a battle coming. We 




may need them to save lives.” 

Frank stared at him, a little bit in awe. Percy had a chance to get his 
memory back, and he was willing to wait in case someone else needed 
the vial more? Romans were supposed to be unselfish and help their 
comrades, but Frank wasn’t sure anyone else at camp would have made 
that choice. 

“So you don't remember anything?” Frank asked. “Family, friends?” 
Percy fingered the clay beads around his neck. “Only glimpses. Murky 
stuff. A girlfriend. ..I thought she’d be at camp.” He looked at Frank 
carefully, as if making a decision. “Her name was Annabeth. You don't 
know her, do you?” 

Frank shook his head. “I know everybody at camp, but no Annabeth. 
What about your family? Is your mom mortal?” 

“I guess so. ..she's probably worried out of her mind. Does your mom 
get to see you much?” 

Frank stopped at the bathhouse entrance. He grabbed some towels 
from the supply shed. “She died.” 

Percy knit his brow. “How?” 

Usually Frank would lie. He’d say an accident and shut off the 
conversation. Otherwise his emotions got out of control. He couldn't cry at 
Camp Jupiter. He couldn’t show weakness. But with Percy, Frank found it 
easier to talk. 

“She died in the war,” he said. "Afghanistan.” 

“She was in the military?” 

“Canadian. Yeah.” 

“Canada? I didn't know — ” 

“Most Americans don't.” Frank sighed. "But yeah, Canada has troops 
there. My mom was a captain. She was one of the first women to die in 
combat. She saved some soldiers who were pinned down by enemy fire. 
She... she didn't make it. The funeral was right before I came down here.” 
Percy nodded. He didn’t ask for more details, which Frank 
appreciated. He didn’t say he was sorry, or make any of the well-meaning 
comments Frank always hated: Oh, you poor guy. That must be so hard 
on you. You have my deepest condolences. 




It was like Percy had faced death before, like he knew about grief. 
What mattered was listening. You didn’t need to say you were sorry. The 
only thing that helped was moving on — moving forward. 

“How about you show me the baths now?” Percy suggested. “I’m filthy.” 
Frank managed a smile. “Yeah. You kind of are.” 

As they walked into the steam room, Frank thought of his 
grandmother, his mom, and his cursed childhood, thanks to Juno and her 
piece of firewood. He almost wished he could forget his past, the way 
Percy had. 




X 



FRANK 



Frank didn’t remember much about the funeral itself. 

But he remembered the hours leading up to it — his grand mother 
coming out into the backyard to find him shooting arrows at her porcelain 
collection. 

His grandmother’s house was a rambling gray stone mansion on 
twelve acres in North Vancouver. Her backyard ran straight into Lynn 
Canyon Park. 

The morning was cold and drizzly, but Frank didn’t feel the chill. He 
wore a black wool suit and a black overcoat that had once belonged to his 
grandfather. Frank had been startled and upset to find that they fit him fine. 
The clothes smelled like wet mothballs and jasmine. The fabric was itchy 
but warm. With his bow and quiver, he probably looked like a very 
dangerous butler. 

He’d loaded some of his grandmother’s porcelain in a wagon and 
toted it into the yard, where he set up targets on old fence posts at the 
edge of the property. He’d been shooting so long, his fingers were starting 
to lose their feeling. With every arrow, he imagined he was striking down 
his problems. 

Snipers in Afghanistan. Smash. A teapot exploded with an arrow 
through the middle. 

The sacrifice medal, a silver disk on a red-and-black ribbon, given for 
death in the line of duty, presented to Frank as if it were something 
important, something that made everything all right. Thwack. A teacup spun 
into the woods. 



The officer who came to tell him: “Your mother is a hero. 

Captain Emily Zhang died trying to save her comrades.” 

Crack. A blue-and-white plate split into pieces. 

His grandmother's chastisement: Men do not cry. Especially Zhang 
men. You wll endure, Fai. 

No one called him Fai except his grandmother. 

What sort of name is Frank? she would scold. That is not a Chinese 
name. 

I’m not Chinese, Frank thought, but he didn’t dare say that. His mother 
had told him years ago: There is no arguing wth Grandmother. It'll only 
make you suffer mrse. She’d been right. And now Frank had no one 
except his grandmother. 

Thud. A fourth arrow hit the fence post and stuck there, quivering. 

“Fai,” said his grandmother. 

Frank turned. 

She was clutching a shoebox-sized mahogany chest that Frank had 
never seen before. With her high-collared black dress and severe bun of 
gray hair, she looked like a school teacher from the 1800s. 

She surveyed the carnage: her porcelain in the wagon, the shards of 
her favorite tea sets scattered over the lawn, Frank’s arrows sticking out of 
the ground, the trees, the fence posts, and one in the head of a smiling 
garden gnome. 

Frank thought she would yell, or hit him with the box. He’d never done 
anything this bad before. He'd never felt so angry. 

Grandmother's face was full of bitterness and disapproval. She looked 
nothing like Frank's mom. He wondered how his mother had turned out to 
be so nice — always laughing, always gentle. Frank couldn’t imagine his 
mom growing up with Grandmother any more than he could imagine her on 
the battlefield — though the two situations probably weren't that different. 

He waited for Grandmother to explode. Maybe he’d be grounded and 
wouldn't have to go to the funeral. He wanted to hurt her for being so mean 
all the time, for letting his mother go off to war, for scolding him to get over 
it. All she cared about was her stupid collection. 




“Stop this ridiculous behavior,” Grandmother said. She didn’t sound 
very irritated. “It is beneath you.” 

To Frank's astonishment, she kicked aside one of her favorite 
teacups. 

"The car will be here soon,” she said. “We must talk.” 

Frank was dumbfounded. He looked more closely at the mahogany 
box. For a horrible moment, he wondered if it contained his mother's 
ashes, but that was impossible. Grandmother had told him there would be 
a military burial. Then why did Grandmother hold the box so gingerly, as if 
its contents grieved her? 

“Come inside,” she said. Without waiting to see if he would follow, she 
turned and marched toward the house. 

In the parlor, Frank sat on a velvet sofa, surrounded by vintage family 
photos, porcelain vases that had been too large for his wagon, and red 
Chinese calligraphy banners. Frank didn’t know what the calligraphy said. 
He'd never had much interest in learning. He didn’t know most of the 
people in the photographs, either. 

Whenever Grandmother started lecturing him about his ancestors — 
how they'd come over from China and prospered in the import/export 
business, eventually becoming one of the wealthiest Chinese families in 
Vancouver — well, it was boring. Frank was fourth-generation Canadian. He 
didn't care about China and all these musty antiques. The only Chinese 
characters he could recognize were his family name: Zhang. Master of 
bo\AS. That was cool. 

Grandmother sat next to him, her posture stiff, her hands folded over 
the box. 

"Your mother wanted you to have this,” she said with reluctance. “She 
kept it since you were a baby. When she went away to the war, she 
entrusted it to me. But now she is gone. And soon you will be going, too.” 

Frank's stomach fluttered. "Going? Where?” 

“I am old,” Grandmother said, as if that were a surprising 
announcement. “I have my own appointment with Death soon enough. I 
cannot teach you the skills you will need, and I cannot keep this burden. If 
something were to happen to it, 




I would never forgive myself. You would die.” 

Frank wasn’t sure he’d heard her right. It sounded like she had said 
his life depended on that box. He wondered why he’d never seen it before. 
She must have kept it locked in the attic — the one room Frank was 
forbidden to explore. She’d always said she kept her most valuable 
treasures up there. 

She handed the box to him. He opened the lid with trembling fingers. 
Inside, cushioned in velvet lining, was a terrifying, life-altering, incredibly 
important.. .piece of wood. 

It looked like driftwood — hard and smooth, sculpted into a wavy shape. 
It was about the size of a TV remote control. The tip was charred. Frank 
touched the burned end. It still felt warm. The ashes left a black smudge on 
his finger. 

“It’s a stick,” he said. He couldn't figure out why Grandmother was 
acting so tense and serious about it. 

Her eyes glittered. “Fai , do you know of prophecies? Do you know of 
the gods?” 

The questions made him uncomfortable. He thought about 
Grandmother's silly gold statues of Chinese immortals, her superstitions 
about putting furniture in certain places and avoiding unlucky numbers. 
Prophecies made him think of fortune cookies, which weren’t even 
Chinese — not really — but the bullies at school teased him about stupid stuff 
like that: Confucius say ... all that garbage. Frank had never even been to 
China. He wanted nothing to do with it. But of course, Grandmother didn't 
want to hear that. 

"A little, Grandmother,” he said. “Not much.” 

“Most would have scoffed at your mother's tale,” she said, "But I did 
not. I know of prophecies and gods. Greek, Roman, Chinese — they 
intertwine in our family. I did not question what she told me about your 
father.” 

“Wait ... what?” 

"Your father was a god,” she said plainly. 

If Grandmother had had a sense of humor, Frank would have thought 
she was kidding. But Grandmother never teased. Was she going senile? 




“Stop gaping at me!” she snapped. “My mind is not addled. Haven't 
you ever wondered why your father never came back?” 

“He was...” Frank faltered. Losing his mother was painful enough. He 
didn't want to think about his father, too. “He was in the army, like Mom. He 
went missing in action. In Iraq.” 

“Bah. He was a god. He fell in love with your mother because she was 
a natural warrior. She was like me — strong, brave, good, beautiful.” 

Strong and brave, Frank could believe. Picturing Grandmother as 
good or beautiful was more difficult. 

He still suspected she might be losing her marbles, but he asked, 
“What kind of god?” 

“Roman,” she said. “Beyond that, I don’t know. Your mother wouldn't 
say, or perhaps she didn't know herself. It is no surprise a god would fall in 
love with her, given our family. He must have known she was of ancient 
blood.” 

“Wait.. .we're Chinese. Why would Roman gods want to date Chinese 
Canadians?” 

Grandmother's nostrils flared. “If you bothered to learn the family 
history, Fai, you might know this. China and Rome are not so different, nor 
as separate as you might believe. Our family is from Gansu Province, a 
town once called Li-Jien. And before that.. .as I said, ancient blood. The 
blood of princes and heroes.” 

Frank just stared at her. 

She sighed in exasperation. “My words are wasted on this young ox! 
You will learn the truth when you go to camp. 

Perhaps your father will claim you. But for now, I must explain the 
firewood.” 

She pointed at the big stone fireplace. “Shortly after you were born, a 
visitor appeared at our hearth. Your mother and I sat here on the couch, just 
where you and I are sitting. You were a tiny thing, swaddled in a blue 
blanket, and she cradled you in her arms.” 

It sounded like a sweet memory, but Grandmother told it in a bitter 
tone, as if she knew, even then, that Frank would turn into a big lumbering 
oaf. 




“A woman appeared at the fire,” she continued. “She was a white 
woman — a gmi poh — dressed in blue silk, with a strange cloak like the 
skin of a goat.” 

“A goat,” Frank said numbly. 

Grandmother scowled. “Yes, clean your ears, Fai Zhang! I’m too old to 
tell every story twice! The woman with the goatskin was a goddess. I can 
always tell these things. She smiled at the baby — at you — and she told your 
mother, in perfect Mandarin, no less: ‘Fie will close the circle. Fie will return 
your family to its roots and bring you great honor.’” 

Grandmother snorted. “I do not argue with goddesses, but perhaps 
this one did not see the future clearly. Whatever the case, she said, ‘He will 
go to camp and restore your reputation there. He will free Thanatos from 
his icy chains — ’” 

“Wait, who?” 

"Thanatos,” Grandmother said impatiently. “The Greek name for 
Death. Now may I continue without interruptions? The goddess said, The 
blood of Pylos is strong in this child from his mother's side. He will have the 
Zhang family gift, but he will also have the powers of his father.'” 

Suddenly Frank’s family history didn’t seem so boring. He desperately 
wanted to ask what it all meant — powers, gifts, blood of Pylos. What was 
this camp, and who was his father? But he didn’t want to interrupt 
Grandmother again. He wanted her to keep talking. 

"No power comes without a price, Fai,” she said. “Before the goddess 
disappeared, she pointed at the fire and said, ‘He will be the strongest of 
your clan, and the greatest. But the Fates have decreed he will also be the 
most vulnerable. His life will burn bright and short. As soon as that piece of 
tinder is consumed — that stick at the edge of the fire — your son is destined 
to die.'” 

Frank could hardly breathe. He looked at the box in his lap, and the 
smudge of ash on his finger. The story sounded ridiculous, but suddenly 
the piece of driftwood seemed more sinister, colder and heavier. "This... 
this — ” 

"Yes, my thick-headed ox,” Grandmother said. “That is the very stick. 
The goddess disappeared, and I snatched the wood from the fire 




immediately. We have kept it ever since.” 

“If it bums up, I die?” 

“It is not so strange,” Grandmother said. “Roman, Chinese — the 
destinies of men can often be predicted, and sometimes guarded against, 
at least for a time. The firewood is in your possession now. Keep it close. 
As long as it is safe, you are safe.” 

Frank shook his head. He wanted to protest that this was just a stupid 
legend. Maybe Grandmother was trying to scare him as some sort of 
revenge for breaking her porcelain. 

But her eyes were defiant. She seemed to be challenging Frank: If you 
do not believe it, bum it. 

Frank closed the box. “If it’s so dangerous, why not seal the wood in 
something that won’t burn, like plastic or steel? Why not put it in a safe 
deposit box?” 

“What would happen,” Grandmother wondered, “if we coated the stick 
in another substance. Would you, too, suffocate? I do not know. Your 
mother would not take the risk. She couldn’t bear to part with it, for fear 
something would go wrong. Banks can be robbed. Buildings can burn 
down. Strange things conspire when one tries to cheat fate. Your mother 
thought the stick was only safe in her possession, until she went to war. 
Then she gave it to me.” 

Grandmother exhaled sourly. “Emily was foolish, going to war, though I 
suppose I always knew it was her destiny. She hoped to meet your father 
again.” 

“She thought... she thought he'd be in Afghanistan?” 

Grandmother spread her hands, as if this was beyond her 
understanding. “She went. She died bravely. She thought the family gift 
would protect her. No doubt that’s how she saved those soldiers. But the 
gift has never kept our family safe. It did not help my father, or his father. It 
did not help me. And now you have become a man. You must follow the 
path.” 

"But. ..what path? What's our gift — archery?” 

"You and your archery! Foolish boy. Soon you will find out. Tonight, 
after the funeral, you must go south. Your mother said if she did not come 




back from combat, Lupa would send messengers. They will escort you to a 
place where the children of the gods can be trained for their destiny.” 

Frank felt as if he were being shot with arrows, his heart splitting into 
porcelain shards. He didn’t understand most of what Grandmother said, 
but one thing was clear: she was kicking him out. 

“You'd just let me go?” he asked. “Your last family?” 

Grandmother's mouth quivered. Her eyes looked moist. Frank was 
shocked to realize she was near tears. She’d lost her husband years ago, 
then her daughter, and now she was about to send away her only 
grandson. But she rose from the couch and stood tall, her posture as stiff 
and correct as ever. 

“When you arrive at camp,” she instructed, “you must speak to the 
praetor in private. Tell her your great-grandfather was Shen Lun. It has 
been many years since the San Francisco incident. Hopefully they will not 
kill you for what he did, but you might want to beg forgiveness for his 
actions.” 

“This is sounding better and better,” Frank mumbled. 

“The goddess said you would bring our family full circle.” 
Grandmother's voice had no trace of sympathy. “She chose your path 
years ago, and it will not be easy. But now it is time for the funeral. We 
have obligations. Come. The car will be waiting.” 

The ceremony was a blur: solemn faces, the patter of rain on the 
graveside awning, the crack of rifles from the honor guard, the casket 
sinking into the earth. 

That night, the wolves came. They howled on the front porch. Frank 
came out to meet them. He took his travel pack, his warmest clothes, his 
bow and his quiver. His mother’s sacrifice medal was tucked in his pack. 
The charred stick was wrapped carefully in three layers of cloth in his coat 
pocket, next to his heart. 

His journey south began — to the Wolf House in Sonoma, and 
eventually to Camp Jupiter, where he spoke to Reyna privately as 
Grandmother had instructed. He begged forgiveness for the great- 
grandfather he knew nothing about. Reyna let him join the legion. She 
never did tell him what his great-grandfather had done, but she obviously 
knew. Frank could tell it was bad. 




“I judge people by their own merits,” Reyna had told him. “But do not 
mention the name Shen Lun to anyone else. It must remain our secret, or 
you'll be treated badly.” 

Unfortunately, Frank didn't have many merits. His first month at camp 
was spent knocking over rows of weapons, breaking chariots, and tripping 
entire cohorts as they marched. His favorite job was caring for Hannibal 
the elephant, but he'd managed to mess that up, too — giving Hannibal 
indigestion by feeding him peanuts. Who knew elephants could be peanut- 
intolerant? Frank figured Reyna was regretting her decision to let him join. 

Every day, he woke up wondering if the stick would somehow catch 
fire and burn, and he would cease to exist. 

All of this ran through Frank’s head as he walked with Hazel and Percy to 
the war games. He thought about the stick wrapped inside his coat pocket, 
and what it meant that Juno had appeared at camp. Was he about to die? 
He hoped not. He hadn’t brought his family any honor yet — that was for 
sure. Maybe Apollo would claim him today and explain his powers and 
gifts. 

Once they got out of camp, the Fifth Cohort formed two lines behind 
their centurions, Dakota and Gwen. They marched north, skirting the edge 
of the city, and headed to the Field of Mars — the largest, flattest part of the 
valley. The grass was cropped short by all the unicorns, bulls, and 
homeless fauns that grazed here. The earth was pitted with explosion 
craters and scarred with trenches from past games. At the north end of the 
field stood their target. The engineers had built a stone fortress with an iron 
portcullis, guard towers, scorpion ballistae, water cannons, and no doubt 
many other nasty surprises for the defenders to use. 

"They did a good job today,” Hazel noted. “That's bad for us.” 

“Wait,” Percy said. “You're telling me that fortress was built today?" 
Hazel grinned. “Legionnaires are trained to build. If we had to, we 
could break down the entire camp and rebuild it somewhere else. Take 
maybe three or four days, but we could do it.” 

“Let’s not,” Percy said. “So you attack a different fort every night?” 

“Not every night,” Frank said. “We have different training exercises. 




Sometimes death ball — urn, which is like paint-ball, except with... you 
know, poison and acid and fire balls. Sometimes we do chariots and 
gladiator competitions, sometimes war games.” 

Hazel pointed at the fort. “Somewhere inside, the First and Second 
Cohorts are keeping their banners. Our job is to get inside and capture 
them without getting slaughtered. We do that, we win.” 

Percy’s eyes lit up. “Like capture-the-flag. I think I like capture-the-flag.” 
Frank laughed. “Yeah, well. . .it’s harder than it sounds. We have to get 
past those scorpions and water cannons on the walls, fight through the 
inside of the fortress, find the banners, and defeat the guards, all while 
protecting our own banners and troops from capture. And our cohort is in 
competition with the other two attacking cohorts. We sort of work together, 
but not really. The cohort that captures the banners gets all the glory.” 

Percy stumbled, trying to keep time with the left-right marching rhythm. 
Frank sympathized. He'd spent his first two weeks falling down. 

“So why are we practicing this, anyway?” Percy asked. “Do you guys 
spend a lot of time laying siege to fortified cities?” 

"Teamwork,” Hazel said. “Quick thinking. Tactics. Battle skills. You'd 
be surprised what you can learn in the war games.” 

“Like who will stab you in the back,” Frank said. 

“Especially that,” Hazel agreed. 

They marched to the center of the Field of Mars and formed ranks. The 
Third and Fourth Cohorts assembled as far as possible from the Fifth. The 
centurions for the attacking side gathered for a conference. In the sky 
above them, Reyna circled on her pegasus, Scipio, ready to play referee. 

Half a dozen giant eagles flew in formation behind her — prepared for 
ambulance airlift duty if necessary. The only person not participating in the 
game was Nico di Angelo, “Pluto’s ambassador,” who had climbed an 
observation tower about a hundred yards from the fort and would be 
watching with binoculars. 

Frank propped his pilum against his shield and checked Percy’s 
armor. Every strap was correct. Every piece of armor was properly 
adjusted. 

“You did it right,” he said in amazement. “Percy, you must've done war 




games before.” 

“I don't know. Maybe.” 

The only thing that wasn’t regulation was Percy’s glowing bronze 
sword — not Imperial gold, and not a gladius. The blade was leaf-shaped, 
and the writing on the hilt was Greek. 

Looking at it made Frank uneasy. Percy frowned. “We can use real 
weapons, right?” 

“Yeah,” Frank agreed. “For sure. I’ve just never seen a sword like that.” 

“What if I hurt somebody?” 

“We heal them,” Frank said. “Or try to. The legion medics are pretty 
good with ambrosia and nectar, and unicorn draught.” 

“No one dies,” Hazel said. “Well, not usually. And if they do — ” 

Frank imitated the voice of Vitellius: "They're wimps! Backin my day, 
we died all the time, and we liked it!” 

Hazel laughed. “Just stay with us, Percy. Chances are we’ll get the 
worst duty and get eliminated early. They'll throw us at the walls first to 
soften up the defenses. Then the Third and Fourth Cohorts will march in 
and get the honors, if they can even breach the fort.” 

Horns blew. Dakota and Gwen walked back from the officers' 
conference, looking grim. 

“All right, here's the plan!” Dakota took a quick swig of Kool-Aid from 
his travel flask. "They're throwing us at the walls first to soften up the 
defenses.” 

The whole cohort groaned. 

“I know, I know,” Gwen said. “But maybe this time we’ll have some 
luck!” 

Leave it to Gwen to be the optimist. Everybody liked her because she 
took care of her people and tried to keep their spirits up. She could even 
control Dakota during his hyperactive bug-juice fits. Still, the campers 
grumbled and complained. Nobody believed in luck for the Fifth. 

“First line with Dakota,” Gwen said. “Lock shields and advance in turtle 
formation to the main gates. Try to stay in one piece. Draw their fire. 
Second line — ” Gwen turned to Frank’s row without much enthusiasm. "You 




seventeen, from Bobby over, take charge of the elephant and the scaling 
ladders. Try a flanking attack on the western wall. Maybe we can spread 
the defenders too thin. Frank, Hazel, Percy. . .well, just do whatever. Show 
Percy the ropes. Try to keep him alive.” She turned back to the whole 
cohort. “If anybody gets over the wall first, I’ll make sure you get the Mural 
Crown. Victory for the Fifth!” 

The cohort cheered half heartedly and broke ranks. 

Percy frowned. ‘“Do whatever?’” 

"Yeah,” Hazel sighed. “Big vote of confidence.” 

“What's the Mural Crown?” he asked. 

“Military medal,” Frank said. He’d been forced to memorize all the 
possible awards. “Big honor for the first soldier to breach an enemy fort. 
You'll notice nobody in the Fifth is wearing one. Usually we don’t even get 
into the fort because we're burning or drowning or. . .” 

He faltered, and looked at Percy. "Water cannons.” 

"What?” Percy asked. 

"The cannons on the walls,” Frank said, “they draw water from the 
aqueduct. There's a pump system — heck, I don't know how they work, but 
they're under a lot of pressure. If you could control them, like you controlled 
the river — ” 

“Frank!” Hazel beamed. “That's brilliant!” 

Percy didn’t look so sure. “I don’t know how I did that at the river. I'm 
not sure I can control the cannons from this far away.” 

“We'll get you closer.” Frank pointed to the eastern wall of the fort, 
where the Fifth Cohort wouldn’t be attacking. “That’s where the defense will 
be weakest. They’ll never take three kids seriously. I think we can sneak up 
pretty close before they see us.” 

“Sneak up how?” Percy asked. 

Frank turned to Hazel. “Can you do that thing again?” 

She punched him in the chest. “You said you wouldn't tell anybody!” 
Immediately Frank felt terrible. He'd gotten so caught up in the idea... 
Hazel muttered under her breath. “Never mind. It’s fine. 

Percy, he’s talking about the trenches. The Field of Mars is riddled 




with tunnels from over the years. Some are collapsed, or buried deep, but 
a lot of them are still passable. I’m pretty good at finding them and using 
them. I can even collapse them if I have to.” 

"Like you did with the gorgons,” Percy said, “to slow them down.” 

Frank nodded approvingly. “I told you Pluto was cool. He’s the god of 
everything under the earth. Hazel can find caves, tunnels, trapdoors — ” 

"And it was our secret,” she grumbled. 

Frank felt himself blushing. "Yeah, sorry. But if we can get close — ” 

“And if I can knock out the water cannons...” Percy nodded, like he 
was warming to the idea. “What do we do then?” 

Frank checked his quiver. He always stocked up on special arrows. 
He'd never gotten to use them before, but maybe tonight was the night. 
Maybe he could finally do something good enough to get Apollo's 
attention. 

"The rest is up to me,” he said. "Let’s go.” 




X I 



FRANK 



Frank had never felt so sure of anything, which made him nervous. Nothing 
he planned ever went right. He always managed to break, ruin, burn, sit on, 
or knock over something important. Yet he knewthis strategy would work. 

Hazel found them a tunnel with no problem. In fact, Frank had a 
sneaking suspicion she didn’t just find tunnels. It was as though tunnels 
manufactured themselves to suit her needs. Passages that had been filled 
in years ago suddenly unfilled, changing direction to lead Hazel where she 
wanted to go. They crept along by the light of Percy’s glowing sword, 

Riptide. Above, they heard the sounds of battle — kids shout ing, 
Hannibal the elephant bellowing with glee, scorpion bolts exploding, and 
water cannons firing. The tunnel shook. Dirt rained down on them. 

Frank slipped his hand inside his armor. The piece of wood was still 
safe and secure in his coat pocket, though one good shot from a scorpion 
might set his lifeline on fire.... 

Bad Frank, he chided himself. Fire is the “F-word.” Don't think about it. 
“There’s an opening just ahead,” Hazel announced. “We’ll come up ten 
feet from the east wall.” 

“How can you tell?” Percy asked. 

“I don’t know,” she said. “But I’m sure.” 

"Could we tunnel straight under the wall?” Frank wondered. 

“No,” Hazel said. “The engineers were smart. They built the walls on 
old foundations that go down to bedrock. And don’t ask how I know. I just 
do.” 



Frank stumbled over something and cursed. Percy brought this sword 
around for more light. The thing Frank had tripped on was gleaming silver. 

Fie crouched down. 

"Don't touch it!” Hazel said. 

Frank's hand stopped a few inches from the chunk of metal. It looked 
like a giant Hershey's Kiss, about the size of his fist. 

“It’s massive,” he said. “Silver?” 

"Platinum.” Hazel sounded scared out of her wits. “It’ll go away in a 
second. Please don't touch it. It’s dangerous.” 

Frank didn’t understand how a lump of metal could be dangerous, but 
he took Hazel seriously. As they watched, the chunk of platinum sank into 
the ground. 

He stared at Hazel. “How did you know?” 

In the light of Percy’s sword, Hazel looked as ghostly as a Lar. “I’ll 
explain later,” she promised. 

Another explosion rocked the tunnel, and they forged ahead. 

They popped out of a hole just where Hazel had predicted. In front of 
them, the fort's east wall loomed. Off to their left, Frank could see the main 
line of the Fifth Cohort advancing in turtle formation, shields forming a shell 
over their heads and sides. They were trying to reach the main gates, but 
the defenders above pelted them with rocks and shot flaming bolts from 
the scorpions, blasting craters around their feet. A water cannon 
discharged with a jaw-rattling THRUM, and a jet of liquid carved a trench 
in the dirt right in front of the cohort. 

Percy whistled. “That's a lot of pressure, all right.” 

The Third and Fourth Cohorts weren’t even advancing. They stood 
back and laughed, watching their “allies” get beat up. The defenders 
clustered on the wall above the gates, yelling insults at the tortoise 
formation as it staggered back and forth. War games had deteriorated into 
“beat up the Fifth.” 

Frank's vision went red with anger. 

“Let’s shake things up.” He reached in his quiver and pulled out an 
arrow heavier than the rest. The iron tip was shaped like the nose cone of 
a rocket. An ultra thin gold rope trailed from the fletching. Shooting it 




accurately up the wall would take more force and skill than most archers 
could manage, but Frank had strong arms and good aim. 

Maybe Apollo is watching, he thought hopefully. 

“What does that do?” Percy asked. “Grappling hook?” 

“It’s called a hydra arrow,” Frank said. “Can you knock out the water 
cannons?” 

A defender appeared on the wall above them. “Fley!” he shouted to his 
buddies. “Check it out! More victims!” 

"Percy,” Frank said, “now would be good.” 

More kids came across the battlements to laugh at them. A few ran to 
the nearest water cannon and swung the barrel toward Frank. 

Percy closed his eyes. Fie raised his hand. 

Up on the wall, somebody yelled, “Open wide, losers!” 

KA-BOOM! 

The cannon exploded in a starburst of blue, green, and white. 
Defenders screamed as a watery shock wave flattened them against the 
battlements. Kids toppled over the walls but were snatched by giant eagles 
and carried to safety. Then the entire eastern wall shuddered as the 
explosion backed up through the pipelines. One after another, the water 
cannons on the battlements exploded. The scorpions’ fires were doused. 
Defenders scattered in confusion or were tossed through the air, giving the 
rescue eagles quite a workout. At the main gates, the Fifth Cohort forgot 
about their formation. Mystified, they lowered their shields and stared at 
the chaos. 

Frank shot his arrow. It streaked upward, carrying its glittering rope. 
When it reached the top, the metal point fractured into a dozen lines that 
lashed out and wrapped around anything they could find — parts of the wall, 
a scorpion, a broken water cannon, and a couple of defending campers, 
who yelped and found themselves slammed against the battlements as 
anchors. From the main rope, handholds extended at two-foot intervals, 
making a ladder. 

“Go!” Frank said. 

Percy grinned. “You first, Frank. This is your party.” 

Frank hesitated. Then he slung his bow on his back and began to 




climb. He was halfway up before the defenders recovered their senses 
enough to sound the alarm. 

Frank glanced back at Fifth Cohort's main group. They were staring 
up at him, dumbfounded. 

“Well?” Frank screamed. “Attack!” 

Gwen was the first to unfreeze. She grinned and repeated the order. A 
cheer went up from the battlefield. Hannibal the elephant trumpeted with 
happiness, but Frank couldn’t afford to watch. He clambered to the top of 
the wall, where three defenders were trying to hack down his rope ladder. 

One good thing about being big, clumsy, and clad in metafFrank was 
like a heavily armored bowling ball. He launched himself at the defenders, 
and they toppled like pins. Frank got to his feet. He took command of the 
battlements, sweeping his pilum back and forth and knocking down 
defenders. Some shot arrows. Some tried to get under his guard with their 
swords, but Frank felt unstoppable. Then Hazel appeared next to him, 
swinging her big cavalry sword like she was born for battle. 

Percy leaped onto the wall and raised Riptide. 

"Fun,” he said. 

Together they cleared the defenders off the walls. Below them the 
gates broke. Hannibal barreled into the fort, arrows and rocks bouncing 
harmlessly off his Kevlar armor. 

The Fifth Cohort charged in behind the elephant, and the battle went 
hand-to-hand. 

Finally, from the edge of the Field of Mars, a battle cry went up. The 
Third and Fourth Cohorts ran to join the fight. 

"A little late,” Hazel grumbled. 

“We can't let them get the banners,” Frank said. 

“No,” Percy agreed. “Those are ours.” 

No more talk was necessary. They moved like a team, as if the three 
of them had been working together for years. They rushed down the interior 
steps and into the enemy base. 




X I I 



FRANK 



After that, the battle was mayhem. 

Frank, Percy, and Hazel waded through the enemy, plowing down 
anyone who stood in their way. The First and Second Cohorts — pride of 
Camp Jupiter, a well-oiled, highly disciplined war machine — fell apart 
under the assault and the sheer novelty of being on the losing side. 

Part of their problem was Percy. He fought like a demon, whirling 
through the defenders’ ranks in a completely unorthodox style, rolling under 
their feet, slashing with his sword instead of stabbing like a Roman would, 
whacking campers with the flat of his blade, and generally causing mass 
panic. Octavian screamed in a shrill voice — maybe ordering the First 
Cohort to stand their ground, maybe trying to sing soprano — but Percy put 
a stop to it. He somer saulted over a line of shields and slammed the butt 
of his sword into Octavian’s helmet. The centurion collapsed like a sock 
puppet. 

Frank shot arrows until his quiver was empty, using blunt-tipped 
missiles that wouldn’t kill but left some nasty bruises. He broke his pilum 
over a defender’s head, then reluctantly drew his gladius. 

Meanwhile, Hazel climbed onto Hannibal’s back. She charged toward 
the center of the fort, grinning down at her friends. “Let’s go, slowpokes!” 

Gods of Olympus, she's beautiful, Frank thought. 

They ran to the center of the base. The inner keep was virtually 
unguarded. Obviously the defenders never dreamed an assault would get 
this far. Hannibal busted down the huge doors. Inside, the First and 
Second Cohort standard-bearers were sitting around a table playing 



Mythomagic with cards and figurines. The cohort's emblems were propped 
carelessly against one wall. 

Hazel and Hannibal rode straight into the room, and the standard- 
bearers fell backward out of their chairs. Hannibal stepped on the table, 
and game pieces scattered. 

By the time the rest of the cohort caught up with them, Percy and Frank 
had disarmed the enemies, grabbed the banners, and climbed onto 
Hannibal's back with Hazel. They marched out of the keep triumphantly 
with the enemy colors. 

The Fifth Cohort formed ranks around them. Together they paraded 
out of the fort, past stunned enemies and lines of equally mystified allies. 

Reyna circled low overhead on her pegasus. “The game is won!” She 
sounded as if she were trying not to laugh. "Assemble for honors!” 

Slowly the campers regrouped on the Field of Mars. Frank saw plenty 
of minor injuries — some burns, broken bones, black eyes, cuts and 
gashes, plus a lot of very interesting hairdos from fires and exploding water 
cannons — but nothing that couldn't be fixed. 

He slid off the elephant. His comrades swarmed him, pounding him on 
the back and complimenting him. Frank wondered if he was dreaming. It 
was the best night of his life — until he saw Gwen. 

“Help!” somebody yelled. A couple of campers rushed out of the 
fortress, carrying a girl on a stretcher. They set her down, and other kids 
started running over. Even from a distance, Frank could tell it was Gwen. 
She was in bad shape. She lay on her side on the stretcher with a pilum 
sticking out of her armor — almost like she was holding it between her chest 
and her arm, but there was too much blood. 

Frank shook his head in disbelief. “No, no, no...” he muttered as he 
ran to her side. 

The medics barked at everyone to stand back and give her air. The 
whole legion fell silent as the healers worked — trying to get gauze and 
powdered unicorn horn under Gwen’s armor to stop the bleeding, trying to 
force some nectar into her mouth. Gwen didn’t move. Her face was ashen 
gray. 

Finally one of the medics looked up at Reyna and shook his head. 




For a moment, there was no sound except water from the ruined 
cannons trickling down the walls of the fort. Hannibal nuzzled Gwen's hair 
with his trunk. 

Reyna surveyed the campers from her pegasus. Her expression was 
as hard and dark as iron. “There will be an investigation. Whoever did this, 
you cost the legion a good officer. Honorable death is one thing, but this ... 

Frank wasn’t sure what she meant. Then he noticed the marks 
engraved in the wooden shaft of the pilum : CHT l legio xii F. The weapon 
belonged to the First Cohort, and the point was sticking out the front of her 
armor. Gwen had been speared from behind — possibly afterVne game had 
ended. 

Frank scanned the crowd for Octavian. The centurion was watching 
with more interest than concern, as if he were examining one of his stupid 
gutted teddy bears. He didn't have a pilum. 

Blood roared in Frank’s ears. He wanted to strangle Octavian with his 
bare hands, but at that moment, Gwen gasped. 

Everyone stepped back. Gwen opened her eyes. The color came 
back to her face. 

“Wh-what is it?” She blinked. “What’s everyone staring at?” She didn't 
seem to notice the seven-foot harpoon sticking out through her chest. 

Behind Frank, a medic whispered, “There’s no way. She was dead. 
She has to be dead.” 

Gwen tried to sit up, but couldn't. “There was a river, and a man 
asking. ..fora coin? Iturned around and the exit door was open. So I just. . . I 
just left. I don't understand. What's happened?” 

Everyone stared at her in horror. Nobody tried to help. 

“Gwen.” Frank knelt next to her. “Don’t try to get up. Just close your 
eyes for a second, okay?” 

“Why? What—” 

“Just trust me.” 

Gwen did what he asked. 

Frank grabbed the shaft of the pilum below its tip, but his hands were 




shaking. The wood was slick. "Percy, Hazel — help me.” 

One of the medics realized what he was planning. “Don’t!” he said. 
“You might — ” 

"What?” Hazel snapped. “Make it worse?” 

Frank took a deep breath. “Hold her steady. One, two, three!” 

He pulled the pilum out from the front. Gwen didn’t even wince. The 
blood stopped quickly. 

Hazel bent down to examine the wound. “It’s closing on its own,” she 
said. “I don't know how, but — ” 

“I feel fine,” Gwen protested. “What's everyone worried about?” 

With Frank and Percy’s help, she got to her feet. Frank glowered at 
Octavian, but the centurion's face was a mask of polite concern. 

Later, Frank thought. Deal wth him later. 

“Gwen,” Hazel said gently, “there’s no easy way to say this. You were 
dead. Somehow you came back.” 

“L.what?” She stumbled against Frank. Her hand pressed against the 
ragged hole in her armor. “How — how?” 

“Good question.” Reyna turned to Nico, who was watching grimly from 
the edge of the crowd. “Is this some power of Pluto?” 

Nico shook his head. "Pluto never lets people return from the dead.” 

He glanced at Hazel as if warning her to stay quiet. Frank wondered 
what that was about, but he didn't have time to think about it. 

A thunderous voice rolled across the field: Death loses its hold. This 
is only the beginning. 

Campers drew weapons. Hannibal trumpeted nervously. Scipio 
reared, almost throwing Reyna. 

“I know that voice,” Percy said. He didn't sound pleased. 

In the midst of the legion, a column of fire blasted into the air. Heat 
seared Frank's eyelashes. Campers who had been soaked by the 
cannons found their clothes instantly steam-dried. Everyone scrambled 
backward as a huge soldier stepped out of the explosion. 

Frank didn't have much hair, but what he did have stood straight up. 
The soldier was ten feet tall, dressed in Canadian Forces desert 




camouflage. He radiated confidence and power. His black hair was cut in 
a flat-topped wedge like Frank’s. His face was angular and brutal, marked 
with old knife scars. His eyes were covered with infrared goggles that 
glowed from inside. He wore a utility belt with a sidearm, a knife holster, 
and several grenades. In his hands was an oversized M16 rifle. 

The worst thing was that Frank felt drawl to him. As everyone else 
stepped back, Frank stepped forward. He realized the soldier was silently 
willing him to approach. 

Frank desperately wanted to run away and hide, but he couldn’t. He 
took three more steps. Then he sank to one knee. 

The other campers followed his example and knelt. Even Reyna 
dismounted. 

“That's good,” the soldier said. “Kneeling is good. It's been a long time 
since I've visited Camp Jupiter.” 

Frank noticed that one person wasn't kneeling. Percy Jackson, his 
sword still in hand, was glaring at the giant soldier. 

"You're Ares,” Percy said. “What do you want?” 

A collective gasp went up from two hundred campers and an elephant. 
Frank wanted to say something to excuse Percy and placate the god, but 
he didn’t know what. He was afraid the war god would blast his new friend 
with that extra-large M16. 

Instead, the god bared his brilliant white teeth. 

“You've got spunk, demigod,” he said. “Ares is my Greek form. But to 
these followers, to the children of Rome, I am Mars — patron of the empire, 
divine father of Romulus and Remus.” 

“We've met,” Percy said. “We. ..we had a fight....” 

The god scratched his chin, as if trying to recall. “I fight a lot of people. 
But I assure you — you’ve never fought me as Mars, if you had, you’d be 
dead. Now, kneel, as befits a child of Rome, before you try my patience.” 

Around Mars's feet, the ground boiled in a circle of flame. 

“Percy,” Frank said, “please.” 

Percy clearly didn't like it, but he knelt. 

Mars scanned the crowd. “Romans, lend me your ears!” He laughed — 
a good, hearty bellow, so infectious it almost made Frank smile, though he 




was still shivering with fear. “I’ve always wanted to say that. I come from 
Olympus with a message. Jupiter doesn’t like us communicating directly 
with mortals, especially nowadays, but he has allowed this exception, as 
you Romans have always been my special people. I’m only permitted to 
speak for a few minutes, so listen up.” 

He pointed at Gwen. “This one should be dead, yet she’s not. The 
monsters you fight no longer return to Tartarus when they are slain. Some 
mortals who died long ago are now walking the earth again.” 

Was it Frank's imagination, or did the god glare at Nico di Angelo? 
"Thanatos has been chained,” Mars announced. “The Doors of Death 
have been forced open, and no one is policing them — at least, not 
impartially. Gaea allows our enemies to pour forth into the world of 
mortals. Her sons the giants are mustering armies against you — armies 
that you will not be able to kill. Unless Death is unleashed to return to his 
duties, you will be overrun. You must find Thanatos and free him from the 
giants. Only he can reverse the tide.” 

Mars looked around, and noticed that everyone was still silently 
kneeling. “Oh, you can get up now. Any questions?” 

Reyna rose uneasily. She approached the god, followed by Octavian, 
who was bowing and scraping like a champion groveler. 

“Lord Mars,” Reyna said, “we are honored.” 

“Beyond honored,” said Octavian. “So far beyond honored — ” 

“Well?” Mars snapped. 

“Well,” Reyna said, “Thanatos is the god of death, the lieutenant of 
Pluto?” 

“Right,” the god said. 

“And you're saying that he's been captured by giants.” 

“Right.” 

“And therefore people will stop dying?” 

“Not all at once,” Mars said. “But the barriers between life and death 
will continue to weaken. Those who know how to take advantage of this will 
exploit it. Monsters are already harder to dispatch. Soon they will be 
completely impossible to kill. Some demigods will also be able to find their 




way back from the Underworld — like your friend Centurion Shishkebab.” 
Gwen winced. “Centurion Shish kebab?” 

“If left unchecked,” Mars continued, “even mortals will eventually find it 
impossible to die. Can you imagine a world in which no one dies — ever?” 
Octavian raised his hand. “But, ah, mighty all-powerful Lord Mars, if we 
can't die, isn't that a good thing? If we can stay alive indefinitely — ” 

"Don't be foolish, boy!” Mars bellowed. “Endless slaughter with no 
conclusion? Carnage without any point? Enemies that rise again and 
again and can never be killed? Is that what you want?” 

"You're the god of war,” Percy spoke up. “Don’t you want endless 
carnage?” 

Mars's infrared goggles glowed brighter. “Insolent, aren't you? 
Perhaps I have fought you before. I can understand why I'd want to kill you. 
I'm the god of Rome, child. I am the god of military might used for a 
righteous cause. I protect the legions. I am happy to crush my enemies 
underfoot, but I don't fight without reason. I don't want war without end. 

You will discover this. You will serve me.” 

“Not likely,” Percy said. 

Again, Frank waited for the god to strike him down, but Mars just 
grinned like they were two old buddies talking trash. 

“I order a quest!” the god announced. “You will go north and find 
Thanatos in the land beyond the gods. You will free him and thwart the 
plans of the giants. Beware Gaea! Beware her son, the eldest giant!” 

Next to Frank, Hazel made a squeaking sound. “The land beyond the 
gods?” 

Mars stared down at her, his grip tightening on his Ml 6. “That’s right, 
Hazel Levesque. You know what I mean. Everyone here remembers the 
land where the legion lost its honor! Perhaps if the quest succeeds, and 
you return by the Feast of Fortuna... perhaps then your honor will be 
restored. If you don’t succeed, there won’t be any camp left to return to. 
Rome will be overrun, its legacy lost forever. So my advice is: Don't fail.” 
Octavian somehow managed to bow even lower. “Urn, Lord Mars, just 
one tiny thing. A quest requires a prophecy, a mystical poem to guide us! 
We used to get them from the Sibylline books, but now it’s up to the augur 




to glean the will of gods. So if I could just run and get about seventy stuffed 
animals and possibly a knife — ” 

“You're the augur?” the god interrupted. 

"Y-yes, my lord.” 

Mars pulled a scroll from his utility belt. “Anyone got a pen?” 

The legionnaires stared at him. 

Mars sighed. “Two hundred Romans, and no one’s got a pen? Never 
mind!” 

He slung his M16 onto his back and pulled out a hand grenade. There 
were many screaming Romans. Then the grenade morphed into a ballpoint 
pen, and Mars began to write. 

Frank looked at Percy with wide eyes. He mouthed: Can your sword 
do grenade form? 

Percy mouthed back, No. Shut up. 

“There!” Mars finished writing and threw the scroll at Octavian. "A 
prophecy. You can add it to your books, engrave it on your floor, whatever.” 
Octavian read the scroll. “This says, ‘Go to Alaska. Find Thanatos and 
free him. Come back by sundown on June twenty-fourth or die.'” 

"Yes,” Mars said. “Is that not clear?” 

“Well, my lord... usually prophecies are unclear. They're wrapped in 
riddles. They rhyme, and...” 

Mars casually popped another grenade off his belt. "Yes?” 

“The prophecy is clear!” Octavian announced. “A quest!” 

“Good answer.” Mars tapped the grenade to his chin. “Now, what 
else? There was something else.. ..Oh, yes.” 

He turned to Frank. “C'mere, kid.” 

No, Frank thought. The burned stick in his coat pocket felt heavier. His 
legs turned wobbly. A sense of dread settled over him, worse than the day 
the military officer had come to the door. 

He knew what was coming, but he couldn’t stop it. He stepped forward 
against his will. 

Mars grinned. “Nice job taking the wall, kid. Who’s the ref for this 
game?” 




Reyna raised her hand. 

"You see that play, ref?” Mars demanded. “That was my kid. First over 
the wall, won the game for his team. Unless you’re blind, that was an MVP 
play. You're not blind, are you?” 

Reyna looked like she was trying to swallow a mouse. “No, Lord 
Mars.” 

"Then make sure he gets the Mural Crown,” Mars demanded. “My kid, 
here!” he yelled at the legion, in case anyone hadn’t heard. Frank wanted 
to melt into the dirt. 

“Emily Zhang’s son,” Mars continued. “She was a good soldier. Good 
woman. This kid Frank proved his stuff tonight. Happy late birthday, kid. 
Time you stepped up to a real man's weapon.” 

He tossed Frank his Ml 6. For a split second Frank though the'd be 
crushed under the weight of the massive assault rifle, but the gun changed 
in midair, becoming smaller and thinner. When Frank caught it, the weapon 
was a spear. It had a shaft of Imperial gold and a strange point like a white 
bone, flickering with ghostly light. 

“The tip is a dragon’s tooth,” Mars said. “You haven’t learned to use 
your mom's talents yet, have you? Well — that spear will give you some 
breathing room until you do. You get three charges out of it, so use it 
wisely.” 

Frank didn’t understand, but Mars acted like the matter was closed. 
“Now, my kid Frank Zhang is gonna lead the quest to free Thanatos, unless 
there are any objections?” 

Of course, no one said a word. But many of the campers glared at 
Frank with envy, jealousy, anger, bitterness. 

“You can take two companions,” Mars said. “Those are the rules. One 
of them needs to be this kid.” 

He pointed at Percy. “He’s gonna learn some respect for Mars on this 
trip, or die trying. As for the second, I don’t care. Pick whomever you want. 
Have one of your senate debates. You all are good at those.” 

The god's image flickered. Lightning crackled across the sky. 

“That's my cue,” Mars said. “Until next time, Romans. Do not 
disappoint me!” 




The god erupted in flames, and then he was gone. 

Reyna turned toward Frank. Her expression was part amazement, part 
nausea, like she'd finally managed to swallow that mouse. She raised her 
arm in a Roman salute. “Ave, Frank Zhang, son of Mars.” 

The whole legion followed her lead, but Frank didn’t want their 
attention anymore. His perfect night had been ruined. 

Mars was his father. The god of war was sending him to Alaska. Frank 
had been handed more than a spear for his birthday. He’d been handed a 
death sentence. 




XIII 



PERCY 



Percy slept likea Medusa victim— which is to say, like a rock. 

He hadn’t crashed in a safe, comfortable bed since... well, he couldn’t 
even remember. Despite his insane day and the million thoughts running 
through his head, his body took over and said: You wll sleep now. 

He had dreams, of course. He always had dreams, but they passed 
like blurred images from the window of a train. He saw a curly-haired faun 
in ragged clothes running to catch up with him. 

“I don’t have any spare change,” Percy called. 

“What?” the faun said. “No, Percy. It’s me, Grover! Stay put! We’re on 
our way to find you. Tyson is close — at least we think he’s the closest. 
We’re trying to get a lock on your position.” 

“What?” Percy called, but the faun disappeared in the fog. 

Then Annabeth was running along beside him, reaching out her hand. 
“Thank the gods!” she called. “For months and months we couldn’t see 
you! Are you all right?” 

Percy remembered what Juno had said — for months he has been 
slumbering, but now he is awake. The goddess had intentionally kept him 
hidden, but why? 

“Are you real?” he asked Annabeth. 

He wanted so much to believe it he felt like Hannibal the elephant was 
standing on his chest. But her face began to dissolve. She cried, “Stay put! 
It’ll be easier for Tyson to find you! Stay where you are!” 

Then she was gone. The images accelerated. He saw a huge ship in a 



dry dock, workers scrambling to finish the hull, a guy with a blowtorch 
welding a bronze dragon figurehead to the prow. He saw the war god 
stalking toward him in the surf, a sword in his hands. 

The scene shifted. Percy stood on the Field of Mars, looking up at the 
Berkeley Hills. Golden grass rippled, and a face appeared in the 
landscape — a sleeping woman, her features formed from shadows and 
folds in the terrain. Her eyes remained closed, but her voice spoke in 
Percy’s mind: 

So this is the demigod vfho destroyed my son Kronos. You don t look 
like much, Percy Jackson, but you’re valuable to me. Come north. Meet 
Alcyoneus. Juno can play her little games wth Greeks and Romans, but 
in the end, you wll be my pawi. You wll be the key to the gods’ defeat. 

Percy’s vision turned dark. He stood in a theater-sized version of the 
camp's headquarters — a principia with walls of ice and freezing mist 
hanging in the air. The floor was littered with skeletons in Roman armor 
and Imperial gold weapons encrusted with frost. In the back of the room sat 
an enormous shadowy figure. His skin glinted of gold and silver, as if he 
were an automaton like Reyna’s dogs. Behind him stood a collection of 
ruined emblems, tattered banners, and a large golden eagle on a staff of 
iron. 

The giant’s voice boomed in the vast chamber. “This will be fun, son of 
Neptune. It’s been eons since I broke a demigod of your caliber. I await 
you atop the ice.” 

Percy woke, shivering. For a moment he didn’t know where he was. 
Then he remembered: Camp Jupiter, the Fifth Cohort barracks. He lay in 
his bunk, staring at the ceiling and trying to control his racing heartbeat. 

A golden giant was waiting to break him. Wonderful. But what 
unnerved him more was that sleeping woman's face in the hills. You wll be 
my pav\n. Percy didn't play chess, but he was pretty sure that being a pawn 
was bad. They died a lot. 

Even the friendlier parts of his dream were disturbing. A faun named 
Grover was looking for him. Maybe that’s why Don had detected a — what 
had he called it? — an empathy link. Somebody named Tyson was 
searching for him, too, and Annabeth had warned Percy to stay where he 




was. 

He sat up in his bunk. His roommates were rushing around, getting 
dressed and brushing their teeth. Dakota was wrapping himself in a long 
piece of red-speckled cloth — a toga. One of the Lares was giving him 
pointers on where to tuck and fold. 

“Breakfast time?” Percy asked hopefully. 

Frank's head popped up from the bunk below. He had bags under his 
eyes like he hadn’t slept well. “A quick breakfast. Then we’ve got the 
senate meeting.” 

Dakota's head was stuck in his toga. He staggered around like a 
Kool-Aid-stained ghost. 

“Urn,” Percy said, “should I wear my bed sheets?” 

Frank snorted. “That’s just for the senators. There’re ten of them, 
elected yearly. You've got to be at camp five years to qualify.” 

“So how come we're invited to the meeting?” 

“Because. ..you know, the quest.” Frank sounded worried, like he was 
afraid Percy would back out. “We have to be in on the discussion. You, me, 
Hazel. I mean, if you're willing...” 

Frank probably didn’t mean to guilt him, but Percy’she art felt pulled 
like taffy. He had sympathy for Frank. Getting claimed by the war god in 
front of the whole camp — what a nightmare. Plus, how could Percy say no 
to that big pouty baby face? Frank had been given a huge task that would 
most likely get him killed. He was scared. He needed Percy’s help. 

And the three of them had made a good team last night. Hazel and 
Frank were solid, dependable people. They’d accepted Percy like family. 
Still, he didn’t like the idea of this quest, especially since it came from 
Mars, and especially after his dreams. 

“I, urn. ..I’d better get ready....” He climbed out of bed and got 
dressed. The whole time, he thought about Annabeth. Help was on the 
way. He could have his old life back. All he had to do was stay put. 

At breakfast, Percy was conscious of everyone looking at him. They 
were whispering about the previous night: 

“Two gods in one day...” 

“Un-Roman fighting...” 




“Water cannon up my nose...” 

He was too hungry to care. He filled up on pancakes, eggs, bacon, 
waffles, apples, and several glasses of orange juice. He probably would 
have eaten more, but Reyna announced that the senate would now 
convene in the city, and all the folks in togas got up to leave. 

“Here we go.” Hazel fidgeted with a stone that looked like a two-carat 
ruby. 

The ghost Vitellius appeared next to them in a purple shimmer. “Bona 
fortuna, you three! Ah, senate meetings. I remember the one when Caesar 
was assassinated. Why, the amount of blood on his toga — ” 

"Thanks, Vitellius,” Frank interrupted. “We should get going.” 

Reyna and Octavian led the procession of senators out of camp, with 
Reyna's metal greyhounds dashing back and forth along the road. Hazel, 
Frank, and Percy trailed behind. Percynoticed Nico di Angelo in the group, 
wearing a black toga and talking with Gwen, who looked a little pale but 
surprisingly good considering she’d been dead the night before. Nico 
waved at Percy, then went back to his conversation, leaving Percy more 
sure than ever that Hazel's brother was trying to avoid him. 

Dakota stumbled along in his red-speckled robe. A lot of other 
senators seemed to be having trouble with their togas, too — hiking up their 
hems, trying to keep the cloth from slipping off their shoulders. Percy was 
glad he was wearing a regular purple T-shirt and jeans. 

“How could Romans move, in those things?” he wondered. 

“They were just for formal occasions," Hazel said. “Like tuxedos. I bet 
the ancient Romans hated togas as much as we do. By the way, you didn't 
bring any weapons, did you?” 

Percy’s hand went to his pocket, where his pen always stayed. “Why? 
Are we not supposed to?” 

“No weapons allowed inside the Pomerian Line,” she said. 

“The M/jafline?” 

"Pomerian,” Frank said. "The city limits. Inside is a sacred 'safe zone.' 
Legions can’t march through. No weapons allowed. That’s so senate 
meetings don't get bloody.” 

“Like Julius Caesar getting assassinated?” Percy asked. 




Frank nodded. “Don’t worry. Nothing like that has happened in 
months.” 

Percy hoped he was kidding. 

As they got closer to the city, Percy could appreciate how beautiful it 
was. The tiled roofs and gold domes gleamed in the sun. Gardens 
bloomed with honeysuckle and roses. The central plaza was paved in 
white and gray stone, decorated with statues, fountains, and gilded 
columns. In the surrounding neighborhoods, cobblestone streets were lined 
with freshly painted town houses, shops, cafes, and parks. In the distance 
rose the coliseum and the horse racing arena. 

Percy didn’t notice they’d reached the city limits until the senators in 
front of him started slowing down. 

On the side of the road stood a white marble statue — a life-size 
muscular man with curly hair, no arms, and an irritated expression. Maybe 
he looked mad because he’d been carved only from the waist up. Below 
that, he was just a big block of marble. 

“Single file, please!” the statue said. “Have your IDs ready.” 

Percy looked to his left and right. He hadn’t noticed before, but a line 
of identical statues ringed the city at intervals of about a hundred yards. 

The senators passed through easily. The statue checked the tattoos 
on their forearms and called each senator by name. “Gwendolyn, senator, 
Fifth Cohort, yes. Nico di Angelo, ambassador of Pluto — very well. Reyna, 
praetor, of course. Hank, senator, Third Cohort — oh, nice shoes, Hank! Ah, 
who have we here?” 

Hazel, Frank, and Percy were the last ones. 

“Terminus,” Hazel said, “this is Percy Jackson. Percy, this is Terminus, 
the god of boundaries.” 

“New, eh?” said the god. "Yes, probatio tablet. Fine. Ah, weapon in 
your pocket? Take it out! Take it out!” 

Percy didn't know how Terminus could tell, but he took out his pen. 

“Quite dangerous,” Terminus said. “Leave it in the tray. Wait, where's 
my assistant? Julia!” 

A little girl about six years old peeked out from behind the base of the 
statue. She had pigtails, a pink dress, and an impish grin with two missing 




teeth. 

“Julia?” Terminus glanced behind him, and Julia scurried in the other 
direction. "Where did that girl go?” 

Terminus looked the other way and caught sight of Julia before she 
could hide. The little girl squealed with delight. 

“Oh, there you are,” said the statue. "Front and center. Bring the tray.” 

Julia scrambled out and brushed off her dress. She picked up a tray 
and presented it to Percy. On it were several paring knives, a corkscrew, 
an oversized container of sun lotion, and a water bottle. 

“You can pick up your weapon on the way out,” Terminus said. “Julia 
will take good care of it. She's a trained professional.” 

The little girl nodded. “Pro-fess-ion-al.” She said each syllable 
carefully, like she'd been practicing. 

Percy glanced at Hazel and Frank, who didn't seem to find anything 
odd about this. Still, he wasn’t wild about handing over a deadly weapon to 
a kid. 

"The thing is,” he said, “the pen returns to my pocket automatically so 
even if I give it up — ” 

“Not to worry,” Terminus assured him. “We'll make sure it doesn't 
wander off. Won't we, Juila?” 

"Yes, Mr. Terminus.” 

Reluctantly, Percy put his pen on the tray. 

“Now, a few rules, since you’re new," Terminus said. “You are entering 
the boundaries of the city proper. Keep the peace inside the line. Yield to 
chariot traffic while walking on public roads. When you get to the Senate 
House, sit on the left-hand side. And, down there — do you see where I'm 
pointing?” 

“Urn,” Percy said, “you don't have any hands.” 

Apparently this was a sore point for Terminus. His marble face turned 
a dark shade of gray. “A smart aleck, eh? Well, Mr. Rule Flouter, right 
down there in the forum — Julia, point for me, please — ” 

Julia dutifully set down the security tray and pointed toward the main 
plaza. 




"The shop with the blue awning,” Terminus continued, “that’s the 
general store. They sell tape measures. Buy one! I want those pants 
exactly one inch above the ankles and that hair regulation cut. And tuck 
your shirt in.” 

Hazel said, “Thank you, Terminus. We need to get going.” 

“Fine, fine, you may pass,” the god said testily. “But stay on the right 
side of the road! And that rock right there — No, Hazel, look where I'm 
pointing. That rock is entirely too close to that tree. Move it two inches to 
the left.” 

Hazel did what she was told, and they continued down the path, 
Terminus still shouting orders at them while Julia did cartwheels across the 
grass. 

“Is he always like that?” Percy asked. 

"No,” Hazel admitted. “Today he was laid back. Usually he's more 
obsessive/compulsive.” 

“He inhabits every boundary stone around the city,” Frank said. “Kind 
of our last line of defense if the city’s attacked.” 

"Terminus isn’t so bad,” Hazel added. “Just don’t make him angry, or 
he'll force you to measure every blade of grass in the valley.” 

Percy filed that information. "And the kid? Julia?” 

Hazel grinned. “Yeah, she’s a cutie. Her parents live in the city. Come 
on. We'd better catch up to the senators.” 

As they approached the forum, Percy was struck by the sheer number 
of people. College-age kids were hanging out at the fountain. Several of 
them waved at the senators as they passed. One guy in his late twenties 
stood at a bakery counter, flirting with a young woman who was buying 
coffee. An older couple was watching a little boy in diapers and a miniature 
Camp Jupiter shirt toddle after seagulls. Merchants were opening their 
shops for the day, putting out signs in 

Latin that advertised pottery, jewelry, and half-price tickets for the 
Hippodrome. 

“All these people are demigods?” Percy asked. 

"Or descended from demigods,” Hazel said. “Like I told you, it’s a 
good place to go to college or raise a family without worrying about 




monster attacks every day. Maybe two, three hundred people live here? 
The veterans act as, like, advisers and reserve forces as needed, but 
mostly they're just citizens living their lives.” 

Percy imagined what that would be like: getting an apartment in this 
tiny replica of Rome, protected by the legion and Terminus the OCD 
border god. He imagined holding hands with Annabeth at a cafe. Maybe 
when they were older, watching their own kid chase seagulls across the 
forum... 

He shook the idea out of his head. He couldn't afford to indulge in that 
kind of thinking. Most of his memories were gone, but he knew this place 
wasn't his home. He belonged somewhere else, with his other friends. 

Besides, Camp Jupiter was in danger. If Juno was right, an attack was 
coming in less than five days. Percy imagined that sleeping woman’s face 
— the face of Gaea — forming in the hills above camp. He imagined hordes 
of monsters descending into this valley. 

If you don’t succeed, Mars had warned, there wont be any camp left 
to return to. Rome will be overrun, its legacy lost forever. 

He thought about the little girl Julia, the families with kids, his new 
friends in the Fifth Cohort, even those silly fauns. He didn't want to picture 
what might happen to them if this place was destroyed. 

The senators made their way to a big white-domed building on the 
west end of the forum. Percy paused at the doorway, trying not to think 
about Julius Caesar getting slashed to death at a senate meeting. Then he 
took a deep breath and followed Hazel and Frank inside. 




X 1 V 



PERCY 



TheSenate House interior looked like a high school lecture hall. A 
semicircle of tiered seats faced a dais with a podium and two chairs. The 
chairs were empty, but one had a small velvet package on the seat. 

Percy, Hazel, and Frank sat on the left side of the semicircle. The ten 
senators and Nico di Angelo occupied the rest of the front row. The upper 
rows were filled with several dozeng hosts and a few older veterans from 
the city, all in formal togas. Octavian stood in front with a knife and a 
Beanie Babylion, just in case anyone needed to consult the god of cutesy 
collectibles. Reyna walked to the podium and raised her hand for attention. 

“Right, this is an emergency meeting,” she said. “We won’t stand on 
formalities.” 

“I love formalities!” a ghost complained. 

Reyna shot him a cross look. 

“First of all,” she said, “we’re not here to vote on the quest itself. The 
quest has been issued by Mars Ultor, patron of Rome. We will obey his 
wishes. Nor are we here to debate the choice of Frank Zhang's 
companions.” 

“All three from the Fifth Cohort?” called out Hank from the Third. 
“That’s not fair.” 

“And not smart," said the boy next to him. “We knowVne Fifth will mess 
up. They should take somebody good.” 

Dakota got up so fast, he spilled Kool-Aid from his flask. “We were 
plenty good last night when we whipped your podex, Larry!” 



“Enough, Dakota,” Reyna said. “Let’s leave Larry's podexout of this. 
As quest leader, Frank has the right to choose his companions. He has 
chosen Percy Jackson and HazelLevesque.” 

A ghost from the second row yelled, “Absurdus! Frank Zhang isn't 
even a full member of the legion! He’s on probatioA quest must be led by 
someone of centurion rank or higher. This is completely — ” 

“Cato,” Reyna snapped. “We must obey the wishes of MarsUltor. That 
means certain ... adjustments.” 

Reyna clapped her hands, and Octavian came forward. He set down 
his knife and Beanie Baby and took the velvet package from the chair. 

“Frank Zhang,” he said, “come forward.” 

Frank glanced nervously at Percy. Then he got to his feet and 
approached the augur. 

“It is my. ..pleasure,” Octavian said, forcing out the last word, “to 
bestow upon you the Mural Crown for being first over the walls in siege 
warfare.” Octavian handed him a bronze badge shaped like a laurel 
wreath. “Also, by order of Praetor Reyna, to promote you to the rank of 
centurion.” 

He handed Frank another badge, a bronze crescent, and the senate 
exploded in protest. 

“He's still a probie!” one yelled. 

“Impossible!” said another. 

“Water cannon up my nose!” yelled a third. 

“Silence!” Octavian’s voice sounded a lot more commanding than it 
had the previous night on the battlefield. “Ourpraetor recognizes that no 
one below the rank of centurion may lead a quest. For good or ill, Frank 
must lead this quest — so our praetor has decreed that Frank Zhang must 
be made centurion.” 

Suddenly Percy understood what an effective speaker Octavian was. 
He sounded reasonable and supportive, but his expression was pained. 
He carefully crafted his words to put all the responsibility on Reyna. This 
was her idea, he seemed to say. 

If it went wrong, Reyna was to blame, if only Octavian had been the 
one in charge, things would have been done more sensibly. But alas, he 




had no choice but to support Reyna, because Octavian was a loyal Roman 
soldier. 

Octavian managed to convey all that without saying it, simultaneously 
calming the senate and sympathizing with them. For the first time, Percy 
realized this scrawny, funny-looking scarecrow of a kid might be a 
dangerous enemy. 

Reyna must have recognized this too. A look of irritation flashed 
across her face. “There is an opening for centurion,” she said. “One of our 
officers, also a senator, has decided to step down. After ten years in the 
legion, she will retire to the city and attend college. Gwen of the Fifth 
Cohort, we thank you for your service.” 

Everyone turned to Gwen, who managed a brave smile. She looked 
tired from the previous night’s ordeal, but also relieved. Percy couldn't 
blame her. Compared to getting skewered with a pilum, college sounded 
pretty good. 

"As praetor,” Reyna continued, “I have the right to replace officers. I 
admit it’s unusual for a camper on probatio to rise directly to the rank of 
centurion, but I think we can agree... last night was unusual. Frank Zhang, 
your ID, please.” 

Frank removed the lead tablet from around his neck and handed it to 
Octavian. 

“Your arm,” Octavian said. 

Frank held up his forearm. Octavian raised his hands to the heavens. 
“We accept Frank Zhang, Son of Mars, to the Twelfth Legion Fulminata for 
his first year of service. Do you pledge your life to the senate and people of 
Rome?” 

Frank muttered something like “Ud-dud.” Then he cleared his throat 
and managed: “I do.” 

The senators shouted, “Senatus Popul usque Roman us!” 

Fire blazed on Frank’s arm. For a moment his eyes filled with terror, 
and Percy was afraid his friend might pass out. Then the smoke and flame 
died, and new marks were seared onto Frank’s skin: spqr, an image of 
crossed spears, and a single stripe, representing the first year of service. 

“You may sit down.” Octavian glanced at the audience as if to say: 




This rnsnt my idea, fo//<s.“Now,” Reyna said, “we must discuss the quest.” 

The senators shifted and muttered as Frank returned to his seat. 

"Did it hurt?” Percy whispered. 

Frank looked at his forearm, which was still steaming. “Yeah. A lot.” Fie 
seemed mystified by the badges in his hand — the centurion's mark and the 
Mural Crown — like he wasn’t sure what to do with them. 

“Flere.” Flazel's eyes shone with pride. “Let me.” 

She pinned the medals to Frank's shirt. 

Percy smiled. He’d only known Frank for a day, but he felt proud of him 
too. “You deserve it, man,” he said. “What you did last night? Natural 
leadership.” 

Frank scowled. “But centurion — ” 

“Centurion Zhang,” called Octavian. "Did you hear the question?” 

Frank blinked. “Urn... sorry. What?” 

Octavian turned to the senate and smirked, like What did I tell you? 

“I was asking," Octavian said like he was talking to a three-year-old, “if 
you have a plan for the quest. Do you even know where you are going?” 

"Urn...” 

Hazel put her hand on Frank's shoulder and stood. “Weren't you 
listening last night, Octavian? Mars was pretty clear. We’re going to the 
land beyond the gods — Alaska.” 

The senators squirmed in their togas. Some of the ghosts shimmered 
and disappeared. Even Reyna’s metal dogs rolled over on their backs and 
whimpered. 

Finally Senator Larry stood. “I know what Mars said, but that’s crazy. 
Alaska is cursed! They call it the land beyond the gods for a reason. It's so 
far north, the Roman gods have no power there. The place is swarming 
with monsters. No demigod has come back from there alive since — ” 

“Since you lost your eagle,” Percy said. 

Larry was so startled, he fell back on his podex. 

“Look,” Percy continued, “I know I’m new here. I know you guys don't 
like to mention that massacre in the nineteen-eighties — ” 

“He mentioned it!” one of the ghosts whimpered. 




“ — But don't you get it?” Percy continued. “The Fifth Cohort led that 
expedition. We failed, and we have to be responsible for making things 
right. That’s why Mars is sending us. This giant, the son of Gaea — he's the 
one who defeated your forces thirty years ago. I’m sure of it. Now he's 
sitting up there in Alaska with a chained death god, and all your old 
equipment. He's mustering his armies and sending them south to attack 
this camp.” 

“Really?” Octavian said. “You seem to know a lot about our enemy's 
plans, Percy Jackson.” 

Most insults Percy could shrug off — being called weak or stupid or 
whatever. But it dawned on him that Octavian was calling him a spy — a 
traitor. That was such a foreign concept to Percy, so not who he was, he 
almost couldn’t process the slur. When he did, his shoulders tensed. He 
was tempted to smack Octavian on the head again, but he realized 
Octavian was baiting him, trying to make him look unstable. 

Percy took a deep breath. 

“We're going to confront this son of Gaea,” he said, managing to keep 
his composure. “We'll get back your eagle and unchain this god...” He 
glanced at Hazel. “Thanatos, right?” 

She nodded. “Letus, in Roman. But his old Greek name is Thanatos. 
When it comes to Death... we're happy to let him stay Greek.” 

Octavian sighed in exasperation. “Well, \Miateveryou call him. ..how 
do you expect to do all this and get back by the Feast of Fortuna? That's 
the evening of the twenty-fourth. It’s the twentieth now. Do you even know 
where to look? Do you even know who this son of Gaea is?” 

"Yes.” Hazel spoke with such certainty that even Percy was surprised. 
“I don't knowexacf/y where to look, but I have a pretty good idea. The 
giant’s name is Alcyoneus.” 

That name seemed to lower the temperature in the room by fifty 
degrees. The senators shivered. 

Reyna gripped her podium. “How do you know this, Hazel? Because 
you're a child of Pluto?” 

Nico di Angelo had been so quiet, Percy had almost forgotten he was 
there. Now he stood in his black toga. 




"Praetor, if I may,” he said. “Hazel and L.we learned a little about the 
giants from our father. Each giant was bred specifically to oppose one of 
the twelve Olympian gods — tousurp that god’s domain. The king of giants 
was Porphyrion, the anti-Jupiter. But the eldest giant was Alcyoneus. He 
was born to oppose Pluto. That's why we know of him in particular.” 

Reyna frowned. “Indeed? You sound quite familiar with him.” 

Nico picked at the edge of his toga. “Anyway. ..the giants were hard to 
kill. According to prophecy, they could only be defeated by gods and 
demigods working together.” 

Dakota belched. “Sorry, did you say gods and demigods... like fighting 
side by side? That could never happen!” 

“It has happened,” Nico said. “In the first giant war, the gods called on 
heroes to join them, and they were victorious. Whether it could happen 
again, I don’t know. But with Alcyoneus ... he was different. He was 
completely immortal, impossible to kill by god or demigod, as long as he 
remained in his home territory — the place where he was born.” 

Nico paused to let that sink in. “And if Alcyoneus has been reborn in 
Alaska — ” 

"Then he can't be defeated there,” Hazel finished. “Ever. By any 
means. Which is why our nineteen-eighties expedition was doomed to fail.” 
Another round of arguing and shouting broke out. 

“The quest is impossible!” shouted a senator. 

“We're doomed!” cried a ghost. 

“More Kool-Aid!” yelled Dakota. 

“Silence!” Reyna called. “Senators, we must act like Romans. Mars 
has given us this quest, and we have to believe it is possible. These three 
demigods must travel to Alaska. They must free Thanatos and return 
before the Feast of Fortuna. If they can retrieve the lost eagle in the 
process, so much the better. All we can do is advise them and make sure 
they have a plan.” 

Reyna looked at Percy without much hope. “You do have a plan?” 
Percy wanted to step forward bravely and say, No, I donV. 

That was the truth, but looking around at all the nervous faces, Percy 




knew he couldn't say it. 

"First, I need to understand something.” He turned toward Nico. “I 
thought Pluto was the god of the dead. Now I hear about this other guy, 
Thanatos, and the Doors of Death from that prophecy — the Prophecy of 
Seven. What does all that mean?” 

Nico took a deep breath. “Okay. Pluto is the god of the Underworld, 
but the actual god of death, the one who’s responsible for making sure 
souls go to the afterlife and stay there — that’s Pluto's lieutenant, Thanatos. 
He's like. ..well, imagine Life and Death are two different countries. 
Everybody would like to be in Life, right? So there's a guarded border to 
keep people from crossing back over without permission. But it’s a big 
border, with lots of holes in the fence. Pluto tries to seal up the breaches, 
but new ones keep popping up all the time. That’s why he depends on 
Thanatos, who's like the border patrol, the police.” 

"Thanatos catches souls,” Percy said, “and deports them back to the 
Underworld.” 

“Exactly,” Nico said. “But now Thanatos has been captured, chained 

up.” 

Frank raised his hand. “Uh...howdo you chain Death?” 

“It’s been done before,” Nico said. “In the old days, a guy named 
Sisyphus tricked Death and tied him up. Another time, Hercules wrestled 
him to the ground." 

“And now a giant has captured him,” Percy said. “So if we could free 
Thanatos, then the dead would stay dead?” He glanced at Gwen. “Urn... no 
offense.” 

“It’s more complicated than that,” Nico said. 

Octavian rolled his eyes. “Why does that not surprise me?” 

“You mean the Doors of Death,” Reyna said, ignoring Octavian. “They 
are mentioned in the Prophecy of Seven, which sent the first expedition to 
Alaska — ” 

Cato the ghost snorted. “We all know how that turned out! We Lares 
remember!” 

The other ghosts grumbled in agreement. 

Nico put his finger to his lips. Suddenly all the Lares went silent. Some 




looked alarmed, like their mouths had been glued together. Percy wished 
he had that power over certain living people. . .like Octavian, for instance. 

“Thanatos is only part of the solution,” Nico explained. “The Doors of 
Death. ..well, that’s a concept even I don’t completely understand. There 
are many ways into the Underworld — the River Styx, the Door of Orpheus 
— plussmaller escape routes that open up from time to time. With Thanatos 
imprisoned, all those exits will be easier to use. Sometimes it might work 
to our advantage and let a friendly soul come back — like Gwen here. More 
often, it will benefit evil souls and monsters, the sneaky ones who are 
looking to escape. Now, the Doors of Death — those are the personal 
doors of Thanatos, his fast lane between Life and Death. Only Thanatos is 
supposed to know where they are, and the location shifts over the ages. If I 
understand correctly, the Doors of Death have been forced open. Gaea's 
minions have seized control of them — ” 

“Which means Gaea controls who can come back from the dead,” 
Percy guessed. 

Nico nodded. “She can pick and choose who to let out — the worst 
monsters, the most evil souls. If we rescue Thanatos, that means at least 
he can catch souls again and send them below. Monsters will die when we 
kill them, like they used to, and we’ll get a little breathing room. But unless 
we're able to retake the Doors of Death, our enemies won’t stay down for 
long. They'll have an easy way back to the world of the living." 

“So we can catch them and deport them,” Percy summed up, “but 
they'll just keep coming back across.” 

“In a depressing nutshell, yes,” Nico said. 

Frank scratched his head. “But Thanatos knows where the doors are, 
right? If we free him, he can retake them.” 

“I don’t think so,” Nico said. “Not alone. He’s no match for Gaea. That 
would take a massive quest. ..an army of the best demigods.” 

“Foes bear arms to the Doors of Death,” Reyna said. “That's the 
Prophecy of Seven...” She looked at Percy, and for just a moment he 
could see how scared she was. She did a good job of hiding it, but Percy 
wondered if she’d had nightmares about Gaea too — if she’d seen visions 
of what would happen when the camp was invaded by monsters that 
couldn't be killed. “If this begins the ancient prophecy, we don’t have 




resources to send an army to these Doors of Death and protect the camp. 

I can't imagine even sparing seven demigods — ” 

“First things first.” Percy tried to sound confident, though he could feel 
the level of panic rising in the room. “I don't know who the seven are, or 
what that old prophecy means, exactly. But first we have to free Thanatos. 
Mars told us we only needed three people for the quest to Alaska. Let’s 
concentrate on succeeding with that and getting back before the Feast of 
Fortuna. Then we can worry about the Doors of Death.” 

"Yeah,” Frank said in a small voice. “That’s probably enough for one 
week.” 

“So you do have a plan?” Octavian asked skeptically. 

Percy looked at his teammates. “We go to Alaska as fast as 
possible...” 

"And we improvise,” Hazel said. 

"A lot,” Frank added. 

Reyna studied them. She looked like she was mentally writing her own 
obituary. 

"Very well,” she said. “Nothing remains except for us to vote what 
support we can give the quest — transportation, money, magic, weapons.” 

"Praetor, if I may,” Octavian said. 

“Oh, great,” Percy muttered. “Here it comes.” 

“The camp is in grave danger,” Octavian said. “Two gods have warned 
us we will be attacked four days from now. We must not spread our 
resources too thin, especially by funding projects that have a slim chance 
of success.” 

Octavian looked at the three of them with pity, as if to say Poor little 
things. “Mars has clearly chosen the least likely candidates for this quest. 
Perhaps that is because he considers them the most expendable. 
Perhaps Mars is playing the long odds. Whatever the case, he wisely didnt 
order a massive expedition, nor did he ask us to fund their adventure. I say 
we keep our resources here and defend the camp. This is where the battle 
will be lost or won. If these three succeed, wonderful! But they should do so 
by their own ingenuity.” 

An uneasy murmur passed through the crowd. Frank jumped to his 




feet. Before he could start a fight, Percy said, “Fine! No problem. But at 
least give us transportation. Gaea is the earth goddess, right? Going 
overland, across the earth — I'm guessing we should avoid that. Plus, it’ll be 
too slow.” 

Octavian laughed. “Would you like us to charter you an airplane?” 

The idea made Percy nauseous. “No. Air travel. ..I have a feeling that 
would be bad, too. But a boat. Can you at least give us a boat?” 

Hazel made a grunting sound. Percy glanced over. She shook her 
head and mouthed, Fine. I’m fine. 

“A boat!” Octavian turned to the senators. "The son of Neptune wants a 
boat. Sea travel has never been the Roman way, but he isn’t much of a 
Roman!” 

“Octavian,” Reyna said sternly, “a boat is little enough to ask. And 
providing no other aid seems very — ” 

“Traditional!” Octavian exclaimed. “It is very traditional. Let us see if 
these questers have the strength to survive without help, like true Romans!” 

More muttering filled the chamber. The senators’ eyes moved back 
and forth between Octavian and Reyna, watching the test of wills. 

Reyna straightened in her chair. “Very well,” she said tightly. “We’ll put 
it to a vote. Senators, the motion is as follows: The quest shall go to 
Alaska. The senate shall provide full access to the Roman navy docked at 
Alameda. No other aid will be forthcoming. The three adventurers will 
survive or fail on their own merits. All in favor?” 

Every senator's hand went up. 

"The motion is passed.” Reyna turned to Frank. “Centurion, your party 
is excused. The senate has other matters to discuss. And, Octavian, if I 
may confer with you for a moment.” 

Percy was incredibly glad to see the sunlight. In that dark hall, with all 
those eyes on him, he’d felt like the world was riding on his shoulders — 
and he was fairly sure he'd had that experience before. 

He filled his lungs with fresh air. 

Hazel picked up a large emerald from the path and slipped it in her 
pocket. “So. . .we're pretty much toast?” 

Frank nodded miserably. “If either of you wants to back out, I wouldn't 




blame you.” 

"Are you kidding?” Hazel said. “And pull sentry duty for the rest of the 
week?” 

Frank managed a smile. He turned to Percy. 

Percy gazed across the forum. Stay put, Annabeth had said in his 
dream. But if he stayed put, this camp would be destroyed. He looked up 
at the hills, and imagined Gaea's face smiling in the shadows and ridges. 
You cant wn, little demigod, she seemed to say. Serve me by staying, or 
serve me by going. 

Percy made a silent vow: After the Feast of Fortuna, he would find 
Annabeth. But for now, he had to act. He couldn’t let Gaea win. 

“I’m with you,” he told Frank. “Besides, I want to check out the Roman 
navy.” 

They were only halfway across the forum when some called, 
"Jackson!” Percy turned and saw Octavian jogging toward them. 

“What do you want?” Percy asked. 

Octavian smiled. "Already decided I'm your enemy? That's a rash 
choice, Percy. I'm a loyal Roman.” 

Frank snarled. “You backstabbing, slimy — ” Both Percy and Hazel had 
to restrain him. 

“Oh, dear,” Octavian said. “Hardly the right behavior for a new 
centurion. Jackson, I only followed you because Reyna charged me with a 
message. She wants you to report to the pn'ncipia without your — ah — two 
lackeys, here. Reyna will meet you there after the senate adjourns. She'd 
like a private word with you before you leave on your quest.” 

“What about?” Percy said. 

“I’m sure I don't know." Octavian smiled wickedly. “The last person she 
had a private talk with was Jason Grace. And that was the last time I ever 
saw him. Good luck and good bye, Percy Jackson.” 




X V 



PERCY 



Percy was glad Riptide had returned to his pocket. Judging from Reyna’s 
expression, he thought he might need to defend himself. 

She stormed into the principia with her purple cloak billowing, and her 
greyhounds at her feet. Percy was sitting in one of the praetor chairs that 
he'd pulled to the visitor's side, which maybe wasn’t the proper thing to do. 
He started to get up. 

“Stay seated," Reyna growled. “You leave after lunch. We have a lot to 
discuss.” 

She plunked down her dagger so hard, the jelly-bean bowl rattled. 
Aurum and Argentum took their posts on her left and right and fixed their 
ruby eyes on Percy. 

“What’d I do wrong?” Percy asked. “If it’s about the chair — ” 

“It’s not you.” Reyna scowled. “I hate senate meetings. When Octavian 
gets talking...” 

Percy nodded. “You’re a warrior. Octavian is a talker. Put him in front 
of the senate, and suddenly he becomes the powerful one.” 

She narrowed her eyes. “You’re smarter than you look.” 

“Gee, thanks. I hear Octavian might get elected praetor, assuming the 
camp survives that long.” 

“Which brings us to the subject of doomsday,” Reyna said, “and how 
you might help prevent it. But before I place the fate of Camp Jupiter in 
your hands, we need to get a few things straight.” 

She sat down and put a ring on the table — a band of silver etched with 



a sword-and-torch design, like Reyna's tattoo. 

“Do you know what this is?” 

"The sign of your mom,” Percy said. “The...uh, war goddess." He tried 
to remember the name but he didn’t want to get it wrong — something like 
bologna. Or salami? 

“Bellona, yes.” Reyna scrutinized him carefully. “You don’t remember 
where you saw this ring before? You really don’t remember me or my 
sister, Hylla?” 

Percy shook his head. “I’m sorry.” 

“It would've been four years ago.” 

“Just before you came to camp.” 

Reyna frowned. “How did you — ?” 

“You've got four stripes on your tattoo. Four years.” 

Reyna looked at her forearm. “Of course, it seems so long ago. I 
suppose you wouldn’t recall me even if you had your memory. I was just a 
little girl — one attendant among so many at the spa. But you spoke with my 
sister, just before you and that other one, Annabeth, destroyed our home.” 
Percy tried to remember. He really did. For some reason, Annabeth 
and he had visited a spa and decided to destroy it. He couldn’t imagine 
why. Maybe they hadn’t liked the deep-tissue massage? Maybe they'd 
gotten bad manicures? 

“It’s a blank,” he said. “Since your dogs aren't attacking me, I hope 
you'll believe me. I'm telling the truth.” 

Aurum and Argentum snarled. Percy got the feeling they were thinking, 
Please lie. Please lie. 

Reyna tapped the silver ring. 

“I believe you're sincere,” she said. “But not everyone at camp does. 
Octavian thinks you’re a spy. He thinks you were sent here by Gaea to find 
our weaknesses and distract us. He believes the old legends about the 
Greeks.” 

“Old legends?” 

Reyna's hand rested halfway between her dagger and the jelly beans. 
Percy had a feeling that if she made a sudden move, she wouldn’t be 




grabbing for the candy. 

“Some believe Greek demigods still exist,” she said, “heroes who 
follow the older forms of the gods. There are legends of battles between 
Roman and Greek heroes in relatively modern times — the American Civil 
War, for instance. I have no proof of this, and if our Lares know anything, 
they refuse to say. But Octavian believes the Greeks are still around, 
plotting our downfall, working with the forces of Gaea. He thinks you are 
one of them.” 

“Is that what you believe?” 

“I believe you came from somewhere, ” she said. “You’re important, 
and dangerous. Two gods have taken a special interest in you since you 
arrived, so I can’t believe you’d work against Olympus... or Rome.” She 
shrugged. “Of course, I could be wrong. Perhaps the gods sent you here to 
test my judgment. But I think... I think you were sent here to make up for the 
loss of Jason.” 

Jason ... Percy couldn't go very far in this camp without hearing that 
name. 

"The way you talk about him...” Percy said. “Were you two a couple?” 

Reyna's eyes bored into him — like the eyes of a hungry wolf. Percy 
had seen enough hungry wolves to know. 

“We might have been,” Reyna said, “given time. Praetors work closely 
together. It’s common for them to become romantically involved. But Jason 
was only praetor for a few months before he disappeared. Ever since then, 
Octavian has been pestering me, agitating for new elections. I’ve resisted. 
I need a partner in power — but I’d prefer someone like Jason. A warrior, 
not a schemer.” 

She waited. Percy realized she was sending him a silent invitation. 

His throat went dry. “Oh ... you mean ... oh.” 

“I believe the gods sent you to help me,” Reyna said. “I don't 
understand where you come from, any more than I understood it four years 
ago. But I think your arrival is some sort of repayment. You destroyed my 
home once. Now you’ve been sent to save my home. I don’t hold a grudge 
against you for the past, Percy. My sister hates you still, it’s true, but Fate 
brought me here to Camp Jupiter. I've done well. All I ask is that you work 




with me for the future. I intend to save this camp.” 

The metal dogs glared at him, their mouths frozen in snarl mode. 
Percy found Reyna's eyes a lot harder to meet. 

“Look, I’ll help,” he promised. “But I’m new here. You’ve got a lot of 
good people who know this camp better than I do. If we succeed on this 
quest, Hazel and Frank will be heroes. You could ask one of them — ” 

"Please,” Reyna said. “No one will follow a child of Pluto. There's 
something about that girl... rumors about where she came from. ...No, she 
won't do. As for Frank Zhang, he has a good heart, but he’s hopelessly 
naive and inexperienced. Besides, if the others found out about his family 
history at this camp — ” 

“Family history?” 

"The point is, Percy, you are the real power on this quest. You are a 
seasoned veteran. I've seen what you can do. A son of Neptune wouldn't 
be my first choice, but if you return successfully from this mission, the 
legion might be saved. The praetorship will be yours for the taking. 
Together, you and I could expand the power of Rome. We could raise an 
army and find the Doors of Death, crush Gaea’s forces once and for all. 
You would find me a very helpful... friend.” 

She said that word like it could have several meanings, and he could 
pick which one. 

Percy’s feet started tapping on the floor, anxious to run. "Reyna. ..I'm 
honored, and all. Seriously. But I’ve got a girlfriend. And I don’t want power, 
ora praetorship.” 

Percy was afraid he'd make her mad. Instead she just raised her 
eyebrows. 

"A man who turns down power?” she said. “That’s not very Roman of 
you. Just think about it. In four days, I have to make a choice. If we are to 
fight off an invasion, we must have two strong praetors. I'd prefer you, but if 
you fail on your quest, or don’t come back, or refuse my offer... Well, I'll 
work with Octavian. I mean to save this camp, Percy Jackson. Things are 
worse than you realize.” 

Percy remembered what Frank said about the monster attacks getting 
more frequent. “How bad?” 




Reyna's nails dug into the table. "Even the senate doesn’t know the 
whole truth. I’ve asked Octavian not to share his auguries, or we'd have 
mass panic. He's seen a great army marching south, more than we can 
possibly defeat. They're led by a giant — ” 

"Alcyone us?” 

“I don’t think so. if he is truly invulnerable in Alaska, he’d be foolish to 
come here himself. It must be one of his brothers.” 

“Great,” Percy said. “So we've got two giants to worry about.” 

The praetor nodded. "Lupa and her wolves are trying to slow them 
down, but this force is too strong even for them. The enemy will be here 
soon — by the Feast of Fortuna at the very latest.” 

Percy shuddered. He’d seen Lupa in action. He knew all about the 
wolf goddess and her pack, if this enemy was too powerful for Lupa, Camp 
Jupiter didn't stand a chance. 

Reyna read his expression. "Yes, it’s bad, but not hopeless. 

If you succeed in bringing back our eagle, if you release Death so we 
can actually kill our enemies, then we stand a chance. And there’s one 
more possibility....” 

Reyna slid the silver ring across the table. “I can’t give you much help, 
but your journey will take you close to Seattle. I'm asking you for a favor, 
which may also help you. Find my sister Hylla.” 

“Your sister. . .the one who hates me?” 

“Oh, yes,” Reyna agreed. “She would love to kill you. But show her that 
ring as a token from me, and she may help you instead.” 

“May?’ 

“I can't speak for her. In fact...” Reyna frowned. “In fact I haven't 
spoken to her in weeks. She’s gone silent. With these armies passing 
through — ” 

"You want me to check on her,” Percy guessed. “Make sure she's 
okay.” 

"Partially, yes. I can’t imagine she’s been overcome. My sister has a 
powerful force. Her territory is well defended. But if you can find her, she 
could offer you valuable help. It could mean the difference between 
success and failure on your quest. And if you tell her what’s happening 




here — ” 

“She might send help?” Percy asked. 

Reyna didn’t answer, but Percy could see the desperation in her eyes. 
She was terrified, grasping for anything that could save her camp. No 
wonder she wanted Percy’s help. She was the only praetor. The defense of 
the camp rested on her shoulders alone. 

Percy took the ring. “I’ll find her. Where do I look? What kind force 
does she have?” 

"Don't worry. Just go to Seattle. They'll find you.” 

That didn’t sound encouraging, but Percy slipped the ring onto his 
leather necklace with his beads and his probatio tablet. "Wish me luck.” 
“Fight well, Percy Jackson,” Reyna said. "And thank you.” 

He could tell the audience was over. Reyna was having trouble holding 
herself together, keeping up the image of the confident commander. She 
needed some time by herself. 

But at the door of the principia, Percy couldn’t resist turning. “How did 
we destroy your home — that spa where you lived?” 

The metal greyhounds growled. Reyna snapped her fingers to silence 
them. 

"You destroyed the power of our mistress,” she said. “You freed some 
prisoners who took revenge on all of us who lived on the island. My sister 
and I. . .well, we survived. It was difficult. But in the long run, I think we are 
better off away from that place.” 

“Still, I'm sorry,” Percy said. “If I hurt you, I'm sorry.” 

Reyna gazed at him for a long time, as if trying to translate his words. 
"An apology? Not very Roman at all, Percy Jackson. You’d make an 
interesting praetor. I hope you'll think about my offer.” 




X V I 



PERCY 



Lunch fh_t like a funeral party. Everybody ate. People talked in hushed 
tones. Nobody seemed particularly happy. The other campers kept 
glancing over at Percy like he was the corpse of honor. 

Reyna made a brief speech wishing them luck. Octavian ripped open 
a Beanie Baby and pronounced grave omens and hard times ahead, but 
predicted the camp would be saved by an unexpected hero (whose initials 
were probably octavian). Then the other campers went off to their afternoon 
classes — gladiator fighting, Latin lessons, paintball with ghosts, eagle 
training, and a dozen other activities that sounded better than a suicide 
quest. Percy followed Hazel and Frank to the barracks to pack. 

Percy didn’t have much. He’d cleaned up his backpack from his trip 
south and had kept most of his Bargain Mart supplies. 

He had a fresh pair of jeans and an extra purple T-shirt from the camp 
quarter master, plus some nectar, ambrosia, snacks, a little mortal money, 
and camping supplies. At lunch, Reyna had handed him a scroll of 
introduction from the praetor and camp senate. Supposedly, any retired 
legionnaires they met on the trip would help them if shown the letter. He 
also kept his leather necklace with the beads, the silver ring, and the 
probatio tablet, and of course he had Riptide in his pocket. 

He folded his tattered orange T-shirt and left it on his bunk. 

“HI be back,” he said. He felt pretty stupid talking to a T-shirt, but he 
was really thinking of Annabeth, and his old life. “I’m not leaving for good. 
But I have to help these guys. They took me in. They deserve to survive.” 



The T-shirt didn't answer, thankfully. 

One of their roommates, Bobby, gave them a ride to the border of the 
valley on Hannibal the elephant. From the hilltops, Percy could see 
everything below. The Little Tiber snaked across golden pastures where 
the unicorns were grazing. The temples and forums of New Rome gleamed 
in the sunlight. On the Field of Mars, engineers were hard at work, pulling 
down the remains of last night’s fort and setting up barricades for a game 
of death ball. A normal day for Camp Jupiter — but on the northern horizon, 
storm clouds were gathering. Shadows moved across the hills, and Percy 
imagined the face of Gaea getting closer and closer. 

Work vith me for the future, Reyna had said. I intend to save this 
camp. 

Looking down at the valley, Percy understood why she cared so much. 
Even though he was new to Camp Jupiter, he felt a fierce desire to protect 
this place. A safe haven where demigods could build their lives — he 
wanted that to be part of his future. Maybe not the way Reyna imagined, 
but if he could share this place with Annabeth. . . 

They got off the elephant. Bobby wished them a safe journey. Hannibal 
wrapped the three questers with his trunk. Then the elephant taxi service 
headed back into the valley. 

Percy sighed. He turned to Hazel and Frank and tried to think of 
something upbeat to say. 

A familiar voice said, "IDs, please.” 

A statue of Terminus appeared at the summit of the hill. The god's 
marble face frowned irritably. “Well? Come along!” 

“You again?” Percy asked. “I thought you just guarded the city.” 

Terminus huffed. “Glad to see you, too, Mr. Rule Flouter. Normally, yes, 

I guard the city, but for international departures, I like to provide extra 
security at the camp borders. You really should’ve allowed two hours 
before your planned departure time, you know. But we’ll have to make do. 
Now, come over here so I can pat you down.” 

“But you don't have — ” Percy stopped himself. “Uh, sure.” 

He stood next to the armless statue. Terminus conducted a rigorous 
mental pat down. 




"You seem to be clean,” Terminus decided. “Do you have anything to 
declare?” 

"Yes,” Percy said. “I declare this is stupid.” 

“Hmph! Probatio tablet: Percy Jackson, Fifth Cohort, son of Neptune. 
Fine, go. Hazel Levesque, daughter of Pluto. Fine. Any foreign currency or, 
ahem, precious metals to declare?” 

"No,” she muttered. 

"Are you sure?” Terminus asked. “Because last time — ” 

"No!” 

“Well, this is a grumpy bunch,” said the god. “Quest travelers! Always 
in a rush. Now, let’s see — Frank Zhang. Ah! Centurion? Well done, Frank. 
And that haircut is regulation perfect. I approve! Off you go, then, Centurion 
Zhang. Do you need any directions today?” 

"No. No, I guess not.” 

“Just down to the BART station,” Terminus said anyway. “Change 
trains at Twelfth Street in Oakland. You want Fruitvale Station. From there, 
you can walk or take the bus to Alameda.” 

“You guys don't have a magical BART train or some thing?” Percy 
asked. 

“Magic trains!” Terminus scoffed. “You’ll be wanting your own security 
lane and a pass to the executive lounge next. Just travel safely, and watch 
out for Polybotes. Talk about scofflaws — bah! I wish I could throttle him with 
my bare hands.” 

“Wait — who?” Percy asked. 

Terminus made a straining expression, like he was flexing his 
nonexistent biceps. “Ah, well. Just be careful of him. I imagine he can smell 
a son of Neptune a mile away. Out you go, now. Good luck!” 

An invisible force kicked them across the boundary. When Percy 
looked back, Terminus was gone. In fact, the entire valley was gone. The 
Berkeley Hills seemed to be free of any Roman camp. 

Percy looked at his friends. “Any idea what Terminus was talking 
about? Watch out for. . . Political something or other?” 

“Poh-LIB-uh-tease?” Hazel sounded out the name carefully. "Never 
heard of him.” 




“Sounds Greek,” Frank said. 

“That narrows it down.” Percy sighed. “Well, we probably just 
appeared on the smell radar for every monster within five miles. We'd 
better get moving.” 

It took them two hours to reach the docks in Alameda. Compared to 
Percy’s last few months, the trip was easy. No monsters attacked. Nobody 
looked at Percy like he was a homeless wild child. 

Frank had stored his spear, bow, and quiver in a long bag made for 
skis. Hazel’s cavalry sword was wrapped in a bedroll slung on her back. 
Together the three of them looked like normal high schoolers on their way 
to an overnight trip. They walked to Rockridge Station, bought their tickets 
with mortal money, and hopped on the BART train. 

They got off in Oakland. They had to walk through some rough 
neighborhoods, but nobody bothered them. When ever the local gang 
members came close enough to look in Percy’s eyes, they quickly veered 
away. He’d perfected his wolf stare over the last few months — a look that 
said: Hoviever bad you think you are, I’m mrse. After strangling sea 
monsters and running over gorgons in a police car, Percy wasn’t scared of 
gangs. Pretty much nothing in the mortal world scared him anymore. 

In the late afternoon, they made it to the Alameda docks. Percy looked 
out over San Francisco Bay and breathed in the salty sea air. Immediately 
he felt better. This was his father's domain. Whatever they faced, he'd have 
the upper hand as long as they were at sea. 

Dozens of boats were moored at the docks — everything from fifty-foot 
yachts to ten-foot fishing boats. He scanned the slips for some sort of 
magic vessel — a trireme, maybe, or a dragon-headed warship like he'd 
seen in his dreams. 

“Urn. . .you guys know what we're looking for?” 

Hazel and Frank shook their heads. 

“I didn't even know we had a navy.” Hazel sounded as if she wished 
there wasn't one. 

“Oh...” Frank pointed. “You don't think...?” 

At the end of the dock was a tiny boat, like a dinghy, covered in a 




purple tarp. Embroidered in faded gold along the canvas was S.P.Q.R. 

Percy’s confidence wavered. “No way.” 

He uncovered the boat, his hands working the knots like he'd been 
doing it his whole life. Under the tarp was an old steel rowboat with no 
oars. The boat had been painted dark blue at one point, but the hull was so 
crusted with tar and salt it looked like one massive nautical bruise. 

On the bow, the name Pax was still readable, lettered in gold. Painted 
eyes drooped sadly at the water level, as if the boat were about to fall 
asleep. On board were two benches, some steel wool, an old cooler, and a 
mound of frayed rope with one end tied to the mooring. At the bottom of the 
boat, aplastic bag and two empty Coke cans floated in several inches of 
scummy water. 

"Behold,” Frank said. "The mighty Roman navy.” 

"There's got to be a mistake,” Hazel said. "This is a piece of junk.” 

Percy imagined Octavian laughing at them, but he decided not to let it 
get him down. The Pax was still a boat. He jumped aboard, and the hull 
hummed under his feet, responding to his presence. He gathered up the 
garbage in the cooler and put it on the dock. He willed the scummy water 
to flow over the sides and out of the boat. Then he pointed at the steel wool 
and it flew across the floor, scrubbing and polishing so fast, the steel 
began to smoke. When it was done, the boat was clean. Percy pointed at 
the rope, and it untied itself from the dock. 

No oars, but that didn’t matter. Percy could tell that the boat was ready 
to move, just awaiting his command. 

"This'll do,” he said. “Hop in.” 

Hazel and Frank looked a little stunned, but they climbed aboard. 
Hazel seemed especially nervous. When they had settled on the seats, 
Percy concentrated, and the boat slipped away from the dock. 

Juno was right, you know The sleepy voice of Gaea whispered in 
Percy’s mind, startling him so badly the boat rocked. Vow could have 
chosen a newlife in the sea. You would have been safe from me there. 
Now it’s too late. You chose pain and misery. You’re part of my plan, 
now— my important little pawn. 

“Get off my ship,” Percy growled. 




“Uh, what?” Frank asked. 

Percy waited, but the voice of Gaea was silent. 

“Nothing,” he said. “Let’s see what this rowboat can do.” 

He turned the boat to the north, and in no time they were speeding 
along at fifteen knots, heading for the Golden Gate Bridge. 




XVII 



HAZEL 



Hazel hated boats. 

She got seasick so easily, it was more like sea plague. She hadn’t 
mentioned this to Percy. She didn’t want to mess up the quest, but she 
remembered how horrible her life had been when she and her mother had 
moved to Alaska — no roads. Everywhere they went, they’d had to take the 
train or a boat. 

She hoped her condition might have improved since she’d come back 
from the dead. Obviously not. And this little boat, the Pax, looked so much 
like that other boat they’d had inAlaska. It brought back bad memories.... 

As soon as they left the dock, Hazel’s stomach started to churn. By the 
time they passed the piers along the San Francisco Embarcadero, she felt 
so woozy she thought she was hallucinating. They sped by a pack of sea 
lions lounging on the docks, and she swore she saw an old homeless guy 
sitting among them. From across the water, the old man pointed a bony 
finger at Percy and mouthed something like Don’t even think about it. 

“Did you see that?” Hazel asked. 

Percy’s face was red in the sunset. “Yeah. I’ve been here before. I...I 
don't know. I think I was looking for my girlfriend.” 

“Annabeth,” Frank said. “You mean, on your way to Camp 

Jupiter?” 

Percy frowned. “No. Before that.” He scanned the city like he was still 
looking for Annabeth until they passed under the Golden Gate Bridge and 
turned north. 



Hazel tried to settle her stomach by thinking of pleasant things — the 
euphoria she’d felt last night when they’d won the war games, riding 
Hannibal into the enemy keep, Frank's sudden transformation into a 
leader. He'd looked like a different person when he'd scaled the walls, 
calling on the Fifth Cohort to attack. The way he'd swept the defenders off 
the battlements... Hazel had never seen him like that before. She'd been 
so proud to pin the centurion's badge to his shirt. 

Then her thoughts turned to Nico. Before they had left, her brother had 
pulled her aside to wish her luck. Hazel hoped he'd stay at Camp Jupiter to 
help defend it, but he said he'd be leaving today — heading back to the 
Underworld. 

"Dad needs all the help he can get,” he said. “The Fields of 
Punishment look like a prison riot. The Furies can barely keep order. 
Besides... I'm going to try to track some of the escaping souls. Maybe I can 
find the Doors of Death from the other side.” 

“Be careful,” Hazel said. “If Gaea is guarding those doors — ” 

"Don't worry.” Nico smiled. “I know how to stay hidden. Just take care 
of yourself. The closer you get to Alaska. ..I'm not sure if it’ll make the 
blackouts better or worse.” 

Take care of myself. Hazel thought bitterly. As if there was any way the 
quest would end well for her. 

“If we free Thanatos,” Hazel told Nico, “I may never see you again. 
Thanatos will send me back to the Underworld....” 

Nico took her hand. His fingers were so pale, it was hard to believe 
Hazel and he shared the same godly father. 

"I wanted to give you a chance at Elysium,” he said. “That was the best 
I could do for you. But now, I wish there was another way. I don't want to 
lose my sister.” 

He didn't say the word again, but Hazel knew that’s what he was 
thinking. For once, she didn't feel jealous of Bianca di Angelo. She just 
wished that she had more time with Nico and her friends at camp. She 
didn't want to die a second time. 

“Good luck, Hazel,” he said. Then he melted into the shadows — just 
like her father had seventy years before. 




The boat shuddered, jolting Hazel back to the present. They entered 
the Pacific currents and skirted the rocky coastline of Marin County. 

Frank held his ski bag across his lap. It passed over Hazel’s knees 
like the safety bar on an amusement ride, which made her think of the time 
Sammy had taken her to the carnival during Mardi Gras.. ..She quickly 
pushed that memory aside. She couldn’t risk a blackout. 

"You okay?” Frank asked. “You look queasy.” 

“Seasickness,” she confessed. “I didn't think it would be this bad.” 
Frank pouted like it was somehow his fault. He started digging in his 
pack. “I’ve got some nectar. And some crackers. Urn, my grandmother 
says ginger helps... I don't have any of that, but — ” 

“It’s okay.” Hazel mustered a smile. “That's sweet of you, though.” 

Frank pulled out a saltine. It snapped in his big fingers. Cracker 
exploded everywhere. 

Hazel laughed. “Gods, Frank.. ..Sorry. I shouldn't laugh.” 

“Uh, no problem,” he said sheepishly. “Guess you don't want that one.” 
Percy wasn’t paying much attention. He kept his eyes fixed on the 
shoreline. As they passed Stinson Beach, he pointed inland, where a 
single mountain rose above the green hills. 

“That looks familiar,” he said. 

“Mount Tam,” Frank said. “Kids at camp are always talking about it. 
Big battle happened on the summit, at the old Titan base.” 

Percy frowned. “Were either of you there?” 

"No,” Hazel said. “That was back in August, before I — um, before I got 
to camp. Jason told me about it. The legion destroyed the enemy's palace 
and about a million monsters. Jason had to battle Krios — hand-to-hand 
combat with a Titan, if you can imagine.” 

“I can imagine,” Percy muttered. 

Hazel wasn’t sure what he meant, but Percy did remind her of Jason, 
even though they looked nothing alike. They had the same aura of quiet 
power, plus a kind of sadness, like they’d seen their destiny and knew it 
was only a matter of time before they met a monster they couldn't beat. 
Hazel understood the feeling. She watched the sun set in the ocean, 




and she knew she had less than a week to live. Whether or not their quest 
succeeded, her journey would be over by the Feast of Fortuna. 

She thought about her first death, and the months leading up to it — her 
house in Seward, the six months she’d spent in Alaska, taking that little 
boat into Resurrection Bay at night, visiting that cursed island. 

She realized her mistake too late. Her vision went black, and she 
slipped back in time. 

Their rental house was a clapboard box suspended on pilings over the 
bay. When the train from Anchorage rolled by, the furniture shook and the 
pictures rattled on the walls. At night, Hazel fell asleep to the sound of icy 
water lapping against the rocks under the floorboards. The wind made the 
building creak and groan. 

They had one room, with a hot plate and an icebox for a kitchen. One 
corner was curtained off for Hazel, where she kept her mattress and 
storage chest. She’d pinned her drawings and old photos of New Orleans 
on the walls, but that only made her homesickness worse. 

Her mother was rarely home. She didn’t go by Queen Marie anymore. 
She was just Marie, the hired help. She’d cook and clean all day at the 
diner on Third Avenue for fishermen, railroad workers, and the occasional 
crew of navy men. She'd come home smelling like Pine-Sol and fried fish. 

At night, Marie Levesque would transform. The Voice took over, giving 
Hazel orders, putting her to work on their horrible project. 

Winter was the worst. The Voice stayed longer because of the 
constant darkness. The cold was so intense, Hazel thought she would 
never be warm again. 

When summer came, Hazel couldn't get enough sun. Every day of 
summer vacation, she stayed away from home as long as she could, but 
she couldn't walk around town. It was a small community. The other kids 
spread rumors about her — the witch’s child who lived in the old shack by 
the docks. If she came too close, the kids jeered at her or threw bottles and 
rocks. The adults weren't much better. 

Hazel could’ve made their lives miserable. She could’ve given them 
diamonds, pearls, or gold. Up here in Alaska, gold was easy. There was 




so much in the hills, Hazel could’ve buried the town without half trying. But 
she didn’t really hate the locals for pushing her away. She couldn't blame 
them. 

She spent the day walking the hills. She attracted ravens. They'd caw 
at her from the trees and wait for the shiny things that always appeared in 
her footsteps. The curse never seemed to bother them. She saw brown 
bears, too, but they kept their distance. When Hazel got thirsty, she’d find a 
snowmelt waterfall and drink cold, clean water until her throat hurt. She'd 
climb as high as she could and let the sunshine warm her face. 

It wasn’t a bad way to pass the time, but she knew eventually she'd 
have to go home. 

Sometimes she thought about her father — that strange pale man in the 
silver-and-black suit. Hazel wished he’d come back and protect her from 
her mother, maybe use his powers to get rid of that awful Voice. If he was a 
god, he should be able to do that. 

She looked up at the ravens and imagined they were his emissaries. 
Their eyes were dark and maniacal, like his. She wondered if they 
reported her movements to her father. 

But Pluto had warned her mother about Alaska. It was a land beyond 
the gods. He couldn't protect them here. If he was watching Hazel, he didn't 
speak to her. She often wondered if she had imagined him. Her old life 
seemed as distant as the radio programs she listened to, or President 
Roosevelt talking about the war. Occasionally the locals would discuss the 
Japanese and some fighting on the outer islands of Alaska, but even that 
seemed far away — not nearly as scary as Hazel's problem. 

One day in midsummer, she stayed out later than usual, chasing a 
horse. 

She'd seen it first when she had heard a crunching sound behind her. 
She turned and saw a gorgeous tan roan stallion with a black mane — just 
like the one she’d ridden her last day in New Orleans, when Sammy had 
taken her to the stables. It could've been the same horse, though that was 
impossible. It was eating something off the path, and for a second, Hazel 
had the crazy impression it was munching one of the gold nuggets that 
always appeared in her wake. 

“Hey, fella,” she called. 



The horse looked at her warily. 

Hazel figured it must belong to someone. It was too well groomed, its 
coat too sleek for a wild horse. If she could get close enough... What? She 
could find its owner? Return it? 

No, she thought. I just want to ride again. 

She got within ten feet, and the horse bolted. She spent the rest of the 
afternoon trying to catch it — getting maddeningly close before it ran away 
again. 

She lost track of time, which was easy to do with the summer sun 
staying up so long. Finally she stopped at a creek for a drink and looked at 
the sky, thinking it must be around three in the afternoon. Then she heard a 
train whistle from down in the valley. She realized it had to be the evening 
run to Anchorage, which meant it was ten at night. 

She glared at the horse, grazing peacefully across the creek. “Are you 
trying to get me in trouble?” 

The horse whinnied. Then. ..Hazel must've imagined it. The horse 
sped away in a blur of black and tan, faster than forked lightning — almost 
too quick for her eyes to register. Hazel didn’t understand how, but the 
horse was definitely gone. 

She stared at the spot where the horse had stood. A wisp of steam 
curled from the ground. 

The train whistle echoed through the hills again, and she realized how 
much trouble she was in. She ran for home. 

Her mother wasn’t there. For a second Hazel felt relieved. Maybe her 
mom had had to work late. Maybe tonight they wouldn't have to make the 
journey. 

Then she saw the wreckage. Hazel’s curtain was pulled down. Her 
storage chest was open and her few clothes strewn across the floor. Her 
mattress had been shredded as if a lion had attacked it. Worst of all, her 
drawing pad was ripped to pieces. Her colored pencils were all broken. 
Pluto's birthday gift, Hazel’s only luxury, had been destroyed. Pinned to the 
wall was a note in red on the last piece of drawing paper, in writing that 
was not her mother's: Wicked girl. I’m rniting at the island. Dont 
disappoint me. Hazel sobbed in despair. She wanted to ignore the 




summons. She wanted to run away, but there was nowhere to go. Besides, 
her mother was trapped. The Voice had promised that they were almost 
done with their task. If Hazel kept helping, her mother would be freed. 
Hazel didn't trust the Voice, but she didn't see any other option. 

She took the rowboat — a little skiff her mother had bought with a few 
gold nuggets from a fisherman, who had a tragic accident with his nets the 
next day. They had only one boat, but Hazel’s mother seemed capable on 
occasion of reaching the island without any transportation. Hazel had 
learned not to ask about that. 

Even in midsummer, chunks of ice swirled in Resurrection Bay. Seals 
glided by her boat, looking at Hazel hopefully, sniffing for fish scraps. In the 
middle of the bay, the glistening back of a whale raked the surface. 

As always, the rocking of the boat made her stomach queasy. She 
stopped once to be sick over the side. The sun was finally going down over 
the mountains, turning the sky blood red. 

She rowed toward the bay’s mouth. After several minutes, she turned 
and looked ahead. Right in front of her, out of the fog, the island 
materialized — an acre of pine trees, boulders, and snow with a black sand 
beach. 

If the island had a name, she didn’t know it. Once Hazel had made the 
mistake of asking the townsfolk, but they had stared at her like she was 
crazy. 

"Ain't no island there,” said one old fisherman, “or my boat would've 
run into it a thousand times.” 

Hazel was about fifty yards from the shore when a raven landed on the 
boat's stern, it was a greasy black bird almost as large as an eagle, with a 
jagged beak like an obsidian knife. 

Its eyes glittered with intelligence, so Hazel wasn’t much surprised 
when it talked. 

"Tonight,” it croaked. "The last night.” 

Hazel let the oars rest. She tried to decide if the raven was warning 
her, or advising her, or making a promise. 

“Are you from my father?” she asked. 

The raven tilted its head. “The last night. Tonight.” 




It pecked at the boat's prow and flew toward the island. 

The last night, Hazel told herself. She decided to take it as a promise. 
No matter v\hat she tells me, I wll make this the last night. 

That gave her enough strength to row on. The boat slid ashore, 
cracking through a fine layer of ice and black silt. 

Over the months, Hazel and her mother had worn a path from the 
beach into the woods. She hiked inland, careful to stick to the trail. The 
island was full of dangers, both natural and magical. Bears rustled in the 
undergrowth. Glowing white spirits, vaguely human, drifted through the 
trees. Hazel didn’t know what they were, but she knew they were watching 
her, hoping she'd stray into their clutches. 

At the center of the island, two massive black boulders formed the 
entrance to a tunnel. Hazel made her way into the cavern she called the 
Heart of the Earth. 

It was the only truly warm place Hazel had found since moving to 
Alaska. The air smelled of freshly turned soil. The sweet, moist heat made 
Hazel feel drowsy, but she fought to stay awake. She imagined that if she 
fell asleep here, her body would sink into the earthen floor and turn to 
mulch. 

The cave was as large as a church sanctuary, like the St. Louis 
Cathedral back home on Jackson Square. The walls glowed with 
luminescent mosses — green, red, and purple. The whole chamber 
thrummed with energy, an echoing boom, boom, boom that reminded 
Hazel of a heartbeat. Perhaps it was just the sea’s waves battering the 
island, but Hazel didn’t think so. This place was alive. The earth was 
asleep, but it pulsated with power. Its dreams were so malicious, so fitful, 
that Hazel felt herself losing her grip on reality. 

Gaea wanted to consume her identity, just as she’d overwhelmed 
Hazel's mother. She wanted to consume every human, god, and demigod 
that dared to walk across her surface. 

You all belong to me, Gaea murmured like a lullaby. Surrender. 
Return to the earth. 

No, Hazel thought. I’m Hazel Levesque. You cant have me. 

Marie Levesque stood over the pit. In six months, her hair had turned 




as gray as lint. She’d lost weight. Her hands were gnarled from hard work. 
She wore snow boots and waders and a stained white shirt from the diner. 
She never would have been mistaken for a queen. 

“It’s too late." Her mother’s frail voice echoed through the cavern. 
Hazel realized with a shock that it was hervoice — not Gaea's. 

“Mother?” 

Marie turned. Her eyes were open. She was awake and conscious. 
This should have made Hazel feel relieved, but it made her nervous. The 
Voice had never relinquished control while they were on the island. 

“What have I done?” her mother asked helplessly. “Oh, Hazel, what did 
I do to you?” 

She stared in horror at the thing in the pit. 

For months they’d been coming here, four or five nights a week as the 
Voice required. Hazel had cried, she’d collapsed with exhaustion, she'd 
pleaded, she'd given in to despair. But the Voice that controlled her mother 
had urged her on relentlessly. Bring valuables from the earth. Use your 
powers, child. Bring my most valuable possession to me. 

At first, her efforts had brought only scorn. The fissure in the earth had 
filled with gold and precious stones, bubbling in a thick soup of petroleum. 
It looked like a dragon’s treasure dumped in a tar pit. Then, slowly, a rock 
spire began to grow like a massive tulip bulb. It emerged so gradually, 
night after night, that Hazel had trouble judging its progress. Often she 
concentrated all night on raising it, until her mind and soul were exhausted, 
but she didn’t notice any difference. Yet the spire did grow. Now Hazel 
could see how much she'd accomplished. The thing was two stories high, 
a swirl of rocky tendrils jutting like a spear tip from the oily morass. Inside, 
something glowed with heat. Hazel couldn’t see it clearly, but she knew 
what was happening. A body was forming out of silver and gold, with oil for 
blood and raw diamonds for a heart. Hazel was resurrecting the son of 
Gaea. He was almost ready to wake. 

Her mother fell to her knees and wept. “I’m sorry, Hazel. I’m so sorry.” 
She looked helpless and alone, horribly sad. Hazel should have been 
furious. Sorry? She'd lived in fear of her mother for years. She’d been 
scolded and blamed for her mother's unfortunate life. She'd been treated 




like a freak, dragged away from her home in New Orleans to this cold 
wilderness, and worked like a slave by a merciless evil goddess. Sorry 
didn't cut it. She should have despised her mother. 

But she couldn’t make herself feel angry. 

Hazel knelt and put her arm around her mother. There was hardly 
anything left of her — just skin and bones and stained work clothes. Even in 
the warm cave, she was trembling. 

“What can we do?” Hazel said. “Tell me how to stop it.” 

Her mother shook her head. “She let me go. She knows it’s too late. 
There's nothing we can do.” 

“She... the Voice?” Hazel was afraid to get her hopes up, but if her 
mother was really freed, then nothing else mattered. They could get out of 
here. They could run away, back to New Orleans. “Is she gone?” 

Her mother glanced fearfully around the cave. “No, she’s here. There's 
only one more thing she needs from me. For that, she needs my free will." 

Hazel didn't like the sound of that. 

“Let’s get out of here,” she urged. “That thing in the rock. . .it’s going to 
hatch.” 

“Soon,” her mother agreed. She looked at Hazel so tenderly.... Hazel 
couldn’t remember the last time she’d seen that kind of affection in her 
mother’s eyes. She felt a sob building in her chest. 

“Pluto warned me,” her mother said. “He told me my wish was too 
dangerous.” 

“Your — your wish?” 

“All the wealth under the earth,” she said. “He controlled it. I wanted it. I 
was so tired of being poor, Hazel. So tired. First I summoned him... just to 
see if I could. I never thought the old gris-gris spell would work on a god. 
But he courted me, told me I was brave and beautiful....” She stared at her 
bent, calloused hands. “When you were born, he was so pleased and 
proud. He promised me anything. He swore on the River Styx. I asked for 
all the riches he had. He warned me the greediest wishes cause the 
greatest sorrows. But I insisted. I imagined living like a queen — the wife of 
a god! And you... you received the curse.” 

Hazel felt as if she were expanding to the breaking point, just like that 




spire in the pit. Her misery would soon become too great to hold inside, 
and her skin would shatter. “That's why I can find things under the earth?” 

"And why they bring only sorrow.” Her mother gestured listlessly 
around the cavern. “That's how she found me, how she was able to control 
me. I was angry with your father. I blamed him for my problems. I blamed 
you. I was so bitter, I listened to Gaea's voice. I was a fool.” 

"There's got to be something we can do,” Hazel said. “Tell me how to 
stop her.” 

The ground trembled. Gaea's disembodied voice echoed through the 
cave. 

My eldest rises, she said, the most precious thing in the earth — and 
you have brought him from the depths, Hazel Levesque. You have made 
him anew. His awakening cannot be stopped. Only one thing remains. 

Hazel clenched her fists. She was terrified, but now that her mother 
was free, she felt like she could confront her enemy at last. This creature, 
this evil goddess, had ruined their lives. Hazel wasn't going to let her win. 

“I won't help you anymore!” she yelled. 

But I am done with your help, girl. I brought you here for one reason 
only. Your mother required . . .incentive. 

Hazel's throat constricted. “Mother?” 

“I’m sorry, Hazel. If you can forgive me, please — know that it was only 
because I loved you. She promised to let you live if — ” 

“If you sacrifice yourself,” Hazel said, realizing the truth. “She needs 
you to give your life willingly to raise that — that thing." 

Alcyoneus, Gaea said. Eldest of the giants. He must rise first, and 
this will be his new homeland— far from the gods. He will walk these icy 
mountains and forests. He will raise an army of monsters. While the gods 
are divided, fighting each other in this mortal World War, he will send 
forth his armies to destroy Olympus. 

The earth goddess’s dreams were so powerful, they cast shadows 
across the cave walls — ghastly shifting images of Nazi armies raging 
across Europe, Japanese planes destroying American cities. Hazel finally 
understood. The gods of Olympus would take sides in the battle as they 




always did in human wars. While the gods fought each other to a bloody 
standstill, an army of monsters would rise in the north. Alcyoneus would 
revive his brother giants and send them forth to conquer the world. The 
weakened gods would fall. The mortal conflict would rage for decades until 
all civilization was swept away, and the earth goddess awakened fully. 
Gaea would rule forever. 

All this, the goddess purred, because your mother was greedy and 
cursed you with the gift of finding riches. In my sleeping state, I would 
have needed decades more, perhaps even centuries, before I found the 
power to resurrect Alcyoneus myself. But now he will wake, and soon, so 
shall I! 

With terrible certainty, Hazel knew what would happen next. The only 
thing Gaea needed was a willing sacrifice — a soul to be consumed for 
Alcyoneus to awaken. Her mother would step into the fissure and touch that 
horrible spire — and she would be absorbed. 

“Hazel, go.” Her mother rose unsteadily. “She’ll let you live, but you 
must hurry.” 

Hazel believed it. That was the most horrible thing. Gaea would honor 
the bargain and let Hazel live. Hazel would survive to see the end of the 
world, knowing that she'd caused it. 

“No.” Hazel made her decision. “I won't live. Not for that.” 

She reached deep into her soul. She called on her father, the Lord of 
the Underworld, and summoned all the riches that lay in his vast realm. The 
cavern shook. 

Around the spire of Alcyoneus, oil bubbled, then churned and erupted 
like a boiling cauldron. 

Dont be foolish, Gaea said, but Hazel detected concern in her tone, 
maybe even fear. You will destroy yourself for nothinq! Your mother will 
still die! 

Hazel almost wavered. She remembered her father’s promise: 
someday her curse would be washed away; a descendant of Neptune 
would bring her peace. He’d even said she might find a horse of her own. 
Maybe that strange stallion in the hills was meant for her. But none of that 
would happen if she died now. She’d never see Sammy again, or return to 




New Orleans. Her life would be thirteen short, bitter years with an unhappy 
ending. 

She met her mother’s eyes. For once, her mother didn’t look sad or 
angry. Her eyes shone with pride. 

“You were my gift, Hazel,” she said. “My most precious gift. I was 
foolish to think I needed anything else.” 

She kissed Hazel’s forehead and held her close. Her warmth gave 
Hazel the courage to continue. They would die, but not as sacrifices to 
Gaea. Instinctively Hazel knew that their final act would reject Gaea's 
power. Their souls would go to the Underworld, and Alcyoneus would not 
rise — at least not yet. 

Hazel summoned the last of her willpower. The air turned searing hot. 
The spire began to sink. Jewels and chunks of gold shot from the fissure 
with such force, they cracked the cavern walls and sent shrapnel flying, 
stinging Hazel's skin through her jacket. 

Stop this! Gaea demanded. You cannot prevent his rise. At best, you 
wll delay him — a fewdecades. Haifa century. Would you trade your lives 
for that? 

Hazel gave her an answer. 

The last night, the raven had said. 

The fissure exploded. The roof crumbled. Hazel sank into her mother's 
arms, into the darkness, as oil filled her lungs and the island collapsed into 
the bay. 




XVIII 



HAZEL 



“Hazel!” Frank shook her arms, sounding panicked. “Come on, please! 
Wake up!” 

She opened her eyes. The night sky blazed with stars. The rocking of 
the boat was gone. She was lying on solid ground, her bundled sword and 
pack beside her. 

She sat up groggily, her head spinning. They were on a cliff 
overlooking a beach. About a hundred feet away, the ocean glinted in the 
moonlight. The surf washed gently against the stern of their beached boat. 
To her right, hugging the edge of the cliff, was a building like a small church 
with a search light in the steeple. A lighthouse, Hazel guessed. Behind 
them, fields of tall grass rustled in the wind. 

“Where are we?” she asked. 

Frank exhaled. “Thank the gods you’re awake! We’re in Mendocino, 
about a hundred and fifty miles north of the Golden Gate.” 

“A hundred and fifty miles?” Hazel groaned. “I’ve been out that long?” 

Percy knelt beside her, the sea wind sweeping his hair. He put his 
hand on her forehead as if checking for a fever. “We couldn’t wake you. 
Finally we decided to bring you ashore. We thought maybe the 
seasickness — ” 

“It wasn’t seasickness.” She took a deep breath. She couldn’t hide the 
truth from them anymore. She remembered what Nico had said: If a 
flashback like that happens when you’re in combat ... 

“I — I haven’t been honest with you,” she said. “What happened was a 



blackout. I have them once in a while.” 

“A blackout?” Frank took Hazel's hand, which startled her. ..though 
pleasantly so. "Is it medical? Why haven't I noticed before?” 

“I try to hide it,” she admitted. “I’ve been lucky so far, but it’s getting 
worse. It’s not medical... not really. Nico says it’s a side effect from my 
past, from where he found me.” 

Percy’s intense green eyes were hard to read. She couldn’t tell 
whether he was concerned or wary. 

“Where exactly did Nico find you?” he asked. 

Hazel's tongue felt like cotton. She was afraid if she started talking, 
she'd slip back into the past, but they deserved to know. If she failed them 
on this quest, zonked out when they needed her most. ..she couldn’t bear 
that idea. 

“I’ll explain,” she promised. She clawed through her pack. Stupidly, 
she'd forgotten to bring a water bottle. “Is... is there anything to drink?” 

"Yeah.” Percy muttered a curse in Greek. “That was dumb. 

I left my supplies down at the boat.” 

Hazel felt bad asking them to take care of her, but she’d woken up 
parched and exhausted, as if she’d lived the last few hours in both the past 
and the present. She shouldered her pack and sword. “Never mind. I can 
walk....” 

"Don't even think about it,” Frank said. “Not until you’ve had some food 
and water. I'll get the supplies.” 

"No, I’ll go.” Percy glanced at Frank’s hand on Hazel’s. Then he 
scanned the horizon as if he sensed trouble, but there was nothing to see 
— just the lighthouse and the field of grass stretching inland. "You two stay 
here. I'll be right back.” 

“You sure?” Hazel said feebly. “I don't want you to — ” 

“It’s fine,” said Percy. “Frank, just keep your eyes open. Something 
about this place... I don't know.” 

“I’ll keep her safe,” Frank promised. 

Percy dashed off. 

Once they were alone, Frank seemed to realize he was still holding 




Hazel's hand. He cleared his throat and let go. 

“I, um...l think I understand your blackouts,” he said. “And where you 
come from.” 

Her heartbeat stumbled. “You do?” 

"You seem so different from other girls I’ve met.” He blinked, then 
rushed on. “Not like...baddifferent. Just the way you talk. The things that 
surprise you — like songs, or 

TV shows, or slang people use. You talk about your life like it 
happened a long time ago. You were born in a different time, weren’t you? 
You came from the Underworld.” 

Hazel wanted to cry — not because she was sad, but because it was 
such a relief to hear someone say the truth. Frank didn’t act revolted or 
scared. He didn't look at her as if she were a ghost or some awful undead 
zombie. 

“Frank, I — ” 

“We'll figure it out,” he promised. “You’re alive now. We’re going to 
keep you that way.” 

The grass rustled behind them. Hazel's eyes stung in the cold wind. 

“I don't deserve a friend like you,” she said. “You don’t know what I 
am... what I've done.” 

“Stop that.” Frank scowled. “You’re great! Besides, you’re not the only 
one with secrets.” 

Hazel stared at him. “I’m not?” 

Frank started to say something. Then he tensed. 

"What?” Hazel asked. 

"The wind's stopped.” 

She looked around and noticed he was right. The air had become 
perfectly still. 

“So?” she asked. 

Frank swallowed. “So why is the grass still moving?” 

Out of the corner of her eye, Hazel saw dark shapes ripple through the 
field. 

“Hazel!” Frank tried to grab her arms, but it was too late. 




Something knocked him backward. Then a force like agrassy 
hurricane wrapped around Hazel and dragged her intothe fields. 




X I X 



HAZEL 



Hazel was an expert on weird. She'd seen her mother possessed by an 
earth goddess. She’d created a giant out of gold. She’d destroyed an 
island, died, and come back from the Underworld. 

But getting kidnapped by a field of grass? That was new. 

She felt as if she were trapped in a funnel cloud of plants. She’d heard 
of modern-day singers jumping into crowds of fans and getting passed 
overhead by thousands of hands. She imagined this was similar — only she 
was moving a thousand times faster, and the grass blades weren’t adoring 
fans. 

She couldn’t sit up. She couldn’t touch the ground. Her sword was still 
in her bedroll, strapped to her back, but she couldn’t reach it. The plants 
kept her off balance, tossing her around, slicing her face and arms. She 
could barely make out the stars through the tumble of green, yellow, and 
black. 

Frank’s shouting faded into the distance. 

It was hard to think clearly, but Hazel knew one thing: She was moving 
fast. Wherever she was being taken, she'd soon be too far away for her 
friends to find her. 

She closed her eyes and tried to ignore the tumbling and tossing. She 
sent her thoughts into the earth below her. Gold, silver — she’d settle for 
anything that might disrupt her kidnappers. 

She felt nothing. Riches under the earth — zero. 

She was about to despair when she felt a huge cold spot pass 



beneath her. She locked onto it with all her concentration, dropping a 
mental anchor. Suddenly the ground rumbled. The swirl of plants released 
her and she was thrown upward like a catapult projectile. 

Momentarily weightless, she opened her eyes. She twisted her body in 
midair. The ground was about twenty feet below her. Then she was falling. 
Her combat training kicked in. She’d practiced dropping from giant eagles 
before. She tucked into a roll, turned the impact into a somersault, and 
came up standing. 

She unslung her bedroll and drew her sword. A few yards to her left, an 
outcropping of rock the size of a garage jutted from the sea of grass. Hazel 
realized it was her anchor. She'd caused the rock to appear. 

The grass rippled around it. Angry voices hissed in dismay at the 
massive clump of stone that had broken their progress. Before they could 
regroup, Hazel ran to the rock and clambered to the top. 

The grass swayed and rustled around her like the tentacles of a 
gigantic undersea anemone. Hazel could sense her kidnappers' 
frustration. 

“Can't grow on this, can you?” she yelled. “Go away, you bunch of 
weeds! Leave me alone!” 

“Schist,” said an angry voice from the grass. 

Hazel raised her eyebrows. “Excuse me?” 

“Schist! Big pile of schist!” 

A nun at St. Agnes Academy had once washed Hazel’s mouth with lye 
soap for saying something very similar, sos he wasn’t sure how to 
respond. Then, all around her rock island, the kidnappers materialized 
from the grass. At first glance they looked like Valentine angels — a dozen 
chubby little Cupid babies. As they stepped closer, Hazel realized they 
were neither cute nor angelic. 

They were the size of toddlers, with rolls of baby fat, but their skin had 
a strange greenish hue, as if chlorophyll ran through their veins. They had 
dry, brittle wings like corn-husks, and tufts of white hair like corn silk. Their 
faces were haggard, pitted with kernels of grain. Their eyes were solid 
green, and their teeth were canine fangs. 

The largest creature stepped forward. He wore a yellow loincloth, and 




his hair was spiky, like the bristles on a stalk of wheat. He hissed at Hazel 
and waddled back and forth so quickly, she was afraid his loincloth might 
fall off. 

“Hate this schist!” the creature complained. "Wheat cannot grow!” 
“Sorghum cannot grow!” another piped up. 

"Barley!” yelled a third. "Barley cannot grow. Curse this schist!” 

Hazel's knees wobbled. The little creatures might have been funny if 
they weren’t surrounding her, staring up at her with those pointed teeth and 
hungry green eyes. They were like Cupid piranhas. 

“Y-you mean the rock?” she managed. "This rock is called schist?” 
“Yes, greenstone! Schist!” the first creature yelled. “Nasty rock.” 

Hazel began to understand how she’d summoned it. “It’s a precious 
stone. It’s valuable?” 

“Bah!” said the one in the yellow loincloth. “Foolish native people 
made jewelry from it, yes. Valuable? Maybe. Not as good as wheat.” 

"Or sorghum!” 

“Or barley!” 

The others chimed in, calling out different types of grain. They circled 
the rock, making no effort to climb it — at least not yet. If they decided to 
swarm her, there was no way she could fend off all of them. 

"You're Gaea's servants,” she guessed, just to keep them talking. 
Maybe Percy and Frank weren’t too far away. Maybe they'd be able to see 
her, standing so tall above the fields. She wished that her sword glowed 
like Percy’s. 

The yellow-diapered Cupid snarled. “We are the ka/po/.spirits of the 
grain. Children of the Earth Mother, yes! We have been her attendants 
since forever. Before nasty humans cultivated us, we were wild. We will be 
again. Wheat will destroy all!” 

“No, sorghum will rule!” 

“Barley shall dominate!” 

The others joined in, each karpos cheering for his own variety. 

“Right.” Hazel swallowed her revulsion. “So you’re Wheat, then — you in 
the yellow, urn, britches.” 




“Hmmmm,” said Wheat. “Come down from your schist, demigod. We 
must take you to our mistress’s army. They will reward us. They will kill you 
slowly!” 

"Tempting,” Hazel said, “but no thanks.” 

“I will give you wheat!” said Wheat, as if this were a very fine offer in 
exchange for her life. “So much wheat!” 

Hazel tried to think. How far had she been carried? How long would it 
take her friends to find her? The karpoi were getting bolder, approaching 
the rock in twos and threes, scratching at the schist to see if it would hurt 
them. 

“Before I get down...” She raised her voice, hoping it would carry over 
the fields. “Urn, explain something to me, would you? If you’re grain spirits, 
shouldn't you be on the gods’ side? Isn’t the goddess of agriculture Ceres 

“Evil name!” Barley wailed. 

“Cultivates us!” Sorghum spat. “Makes us grow in disgusting rows. 
Lets humans harvest us. Pah! When Gaea is mistress of the world again, 
we will grow wild, yes!” 

“Well, naturally,” Hazel said. “So this army of hers, where you’re taking 
me in exchange for wheat — ” 

"Or barley,” Barley offered. 

"Yeah,” Hazel agreed. “This army is where, now?” 

“Just over the ridge!” Sorghum clapped his hands excitedly. "The Earth 
Mother — oh, yes! — she told us: ‘Look for the daughter of Pluto who lives 
again. Find her! Bring her alive! I have many tortures planned for her.’ The 
giant Polybotes will reward us for your life! Then we will march south to 
destroy the Romans. We can't be killed, you know. But you can, yes.” 

“That's wonderful.” Hazel tried to sound enthusiastic. It wasn't easy, 
knowing Gaea had special revenge planned for her. “So you — you can’t be 
killed because Alcyoneus has captured Death, is that it?” 

“Exactly!” Barley said. 

"And he's keeping him chained in Alaska,” Hazel said, “at., .let’s see, 
what's the name of that place?” 

Sorghum started to answer, but Wheat flew at him and knocked him 




down. The karpoi began to fight, dissolving into funnel clouds of grain. 
Hazel considered making a run for it. Then Wheat re-formed, holding 
Sorghum in a headlock. “Stop!" he yelled at the others. “Multigrain fighting 
is not allowed!” 

The karpoi solidified into chubby Cupid piranhas again. 

Wheat pushed Sorghum away. 

“Oh, clever demigod,” he said. “Trying to trick us into giving secrets. 
No, you'll neverfind the lairof Alcyoneus.” 

“I already know where it is,” she said with false confidence. “He’s on 
the island in Resurrection Bay.” 

“Ha!” Wheat sneered. “That place sank beneath the waves long ago. 
You should know that! Gaea hates you for it. When you thwarted her plans, 
she was forced to sleep again. Decades and decades! Alcyoneus — not 
until the dark times was he able to rise.” 

“The nineteen-eighties,” Barley agreed. “Horrible! Horrible!” 

“Yes,” Wheat said. “And our mistress still sleeps. Alcyoneus was 
forced to bide his time in the north, waiting, planning. Only now does Gaea 
begin to stir. Oh, but she remembers you, and so does her son!” 

Sorghum cackled with glee. “You will neverfind the prison of Thanatos. 
All of Alaska is the giant’s home. He could be keeping Death anywhere! 
Years it would take you to find him, and your poor camp has only days. 
Better you surrender. We will give you grain. So much grain.” 

Hazel's sword felt heavy. She’d dreaded returning to Alaska, but at 
least she’d had an idea where to start looking for Thanatos. She'd 
assumed that the island where she had died hadn't been completely 
destroyed, or possibly had risen again when Alcyoneus woke. She had 
hoped that his base would be there. But if the island was really gone, she 
had no idea how to find the giant. Alaska was huge. They could search for 
decades and neverfind him. 

“Yes,” Wheat said, sensing her anguish. “Give up.” 

Hazel gripped her spatha. “Never!” She raised her voice again, 
hoping it would somehow reach her friends. “If I have to destroy you all, I 
will. I am the daughter of Pluto!” 

The karpoi advanced. They gripped the rock, hissing as if it were 




scalding hot, but they began to climb. 

“Now you will die,” Wheat promised, gnashing his teeth. “You will feel 
the wrath of grain!” 

Suddenly there was a whistling sound. Wheat's snarl froze. He looked 
down at the golden arrow that had just pierced his chest. Then he 
dissolved into pieces of Chex Mix. 




X X 



HAZEL 



For A heartbeat, Hazel was just as stunned as the karpoi J\r\er\ Frank and 
Percy burst into the open and began to massacre every source of fiber 
they could find. Frank shot an arrow through Barley, who crumbled into 
seeds. Percy slashed Riptide through Sorghum and charged toward Millet 
and Oats. Hazel jumped down and joined the fight. 

Within minutes, the karpoi had been reduced to piles of seeds and 
various breakfast cereals. Wheat started to re-form, but Percy pulled a 
lighter from his pack and sparked a flame. 

“Try it,” he warned, “and I’ll set this whole field on fire. Stay dead. Stay 
away from us, or the grass gets it!” 

Frank winced like the flame terrified him. Hazel didn’t understand why, 
but she shouted at the grain piles anyway: “He’ll do it! He’s crazy!” 

The remnants of the karpoi scattered in the wind. Frank climbed the 
rock and watched them go. 

Percy extinguished his lighter and grinned at Hazel. 

“Thanks for yelling. We wouldn't have found you otherwise. 

How’d you hold them off so long?” 

She pointed to the rock. “A big pile of schist.” 

“Excuse me?” 

“Guys,” Frank called from the top of the rock. “You need to see this.” 
Percy and Hazel climbed up to join him. As soon as Hazel saw what 
he was looking at, she inhaled sharply. “Percy, no light! Put up your sword!” 



“Schist!” He touched the sword tip, and Riptide shrank back into a 

pen. 

Down below them, an army was on the move. 

The field dropped into a shallow ravine, where a country road wound 
north and south. On the opposite side of the road, grassy hills stretched to 
the horizon, empty of civilization except for one darkened convenience 
store at the top of the nearest rise. 

The whole ravine was full of monsters — column after column marching 
south, so many and so close, Hazel was amazed they hadn’t heard her 
shouting. 

She, Frank, and Percy crouched against the rock. They watched in 
disbelief as several dozen large, hairy humanoids passed by, dressed in 
tattered bits of armor and animal fur. The creatures had six arms each, 
three sprouting on either side, so they looked like cavemen evolved from 
insects. 

“Gegenes,” Hazel whispered. “The Earthborn.” 

“You've fought them before?” Percy asked. 

She shook her head. “Just heard about them in monster class at 
camp.” She’d never liked monster class — reading Pliny the Elder and 
those other musty authors who described legendary monsters from the 
edges of the Roman Empire. Hazel believed in monsters, but some of the 
descriptions were so wild, she had thought they must be just ridiculous 
rumors. 

Only now, a whole army of those rumors was marching by. 

"The Earthborn fought the Argonauts,” she murmured. “And those 
things behind them — ” 

“Centaurs,” Percy said. "But... that’s not right. Centaurs are good 
guys.” 

Frank made a choking sound. “That’s not what we were taught at 
camp. Centaurs are crazy, always getting drunk and killing heroes.” 

Hazel watched as the horse-men cantered past. They were human 
from the waist up, palomino from the waist down. They were dressed in 
barbarian armor of hide and bronze, armed with spears and slings. At first, 
Hazel thought they were wearing Viking helmets. Then she realized they 




had actual horns jutting from their shaggy hair. 

"Are they supposed to have bull's horns?” she asked. 

“Maybe they’re a special breed,” Frank said. “Let’s not ask them, 
okay?” 

Percy gazed farther down the road and his face went slack. “My gods 
... Cyclopes.” 

Sure enough, lumbering after the centaurs was a battalion of one-eyed 
ogres, both male and female, each about ten feet tall, wearing armor 
cobbled out of junkyard metal. Six of the monsters were yoked like oxen, 
pulling a two-story-tall siege tower fitted with a giant scorpion ballista. 

Percy pressed the sides of his head. “Cyclopes. Centaurs. This is 
wrong. All wrong.” 

The monster army was enough to make anyone despair, but Hazel 
realized that something else was going on with Percy. He looked pale and 
sickly in the moonlight, as if his memories were trying to come back, 
scrambling his mind in the process. 

She glanced at Frank. “We need to get him back to the boat. The sea 
will make him feel better.” 

“No argument," Frank said. “There are too many of them. The camp... 
we have to warn the camp.” 

“They know,” Percy groaned. “Reyna knows.” 

A lump formed in Hazel's throat. There was no way the legion could 
fight so many. If they were only a few hundred miles north of Camp Jupiter, 
their quest was already doomed. They could never make it to Alaska and 
back in time. 

“Come on,” she urged. “Let’s...” 

Then she saw the giant. 

When he appeared over the ridge, Hazel couldn’t quite believe her 
eyes. He was taller than the siege tower — thirty feet, at least — with scaly 
reptilian legs like a Komodo dragon from the waist down and green-blue 
armor from the waist up. His breastplate was shaped like rows of hungry 
monstrous faces, their mouths open as if demanding food. His face was 
human, but his hair was wild and green, like a mop of seaweed. As he 
turned his head from side to side, snakes dropped from his dreadlocks. 




Viper dandruff — gross. 

He was armed with a massive trident and a weighted net. 

Just the sight of those weapons made Hazel's stomach clench. She'd 
faced that type of fighter in gladiator training many times. It was the 
trickiest, sneakiest, most evil combat style she knew. This giant was a 
supersize retiarius. 

"Who is he?” Frank's voice quivered. “That's not — ” 

“Not Alcyoneus,” Hazel said weakly. “One of his brothers, I think. The 
one Terminus mentioned. The grain spirit mentioned him, too. That's 
Polybotes.” 

She wasn’t sure how she knew, but she could feel the giant’s aura of 
power even from here. She remembered that feeling from the Heart of the 
Earth as she had raised Alcyoneus — as if she were standing near a 
powerful magnet, and all the iron in her blood was being drawn toward it. 
This giant was another child of Gaea — a creature of the earth so 
malevolent and powerful, he radiated his own gravitational field. 

Hazel knew they should leave. Their hiding place on top of the rock 
would be in plain sight to a creature that tall if he chose to look in their 
direction. But she sensed something important was about to happen. She 
and her friends crept a little farther down the schist and kept watching. 

As the giant got close, a Cyclops woman broke ranks and ran back to 
speak with him. She was enormous, fat, and horribly ugly, wearing a chain- 
mail dress like a muumuu — but next to the giant she looked like a child. 

She pointed to the closed-up convenience store on top of the nearest 
hill and muttered something about food. The giant snapped back an 
answer, as if he was annoyed. The female Cyclopes barked an order to 
her kindred, and three of them followed her up the hill. 

When they were halfway to the store, a searing light turned night into 
day. Hazel was blinded. Below her, the enemy army dissolved into chaos, 
monsters screaming in pain and outrage. Hazel squinted. She felt like 
she'd just stepped out of a dark theater into a sunny afternoon. 

"Too pretty!” the Cyclopes shrieked. “Burns our eye!” 

The store on the hill was encased in a rainbow, closer and brighter 
than any Hazel had ever seen. The light was anchored at the store, 




shooting up into the heavens, bathing the countryside in a weird 
kaleidoscopic glow. 

The lady Cyclops hefted her club and charged at the store. As she hit 
the rainbow, her whole body began to steam. She wailed in agony and 
dropped her club, retreating with multicolored blisters all over her arms and 
face. 

“Horrible goddess!” she bellowed at the store. “Give us snacks!” 

The other monsters went crazy, charging the convenience store, then 
running away as the rainbow light burned them. Some threw rocks, spears, 
swords, and even pieces of their armor, all of which burned up inflames of 
pretty colors. 

Finally the giant leader seemed to realize that his troops were 
throwing away perfectly good equipment. 

“Stop!” he roared. 

With some difficulty, he managed to shout and push and pummel his 
troops into submission. When they’d quieted down, he approached the 
rainbow-shielded store himself and stalked around the borders of the light. 
“Goddess!” he shouted. “Come out and surrender!” 

No answer from the store. The rainbow continued to shimmer. 

The giant raised his trident and net. “I am Polybotes! Kneel before me 
so I may destroy you quickly.” 

Apparently, no one in the store was impressed. A tiny dark object 
came sailing out the window and landed at the giant’s feet. Polybotes 
yelled, “Grenade!” 

He covered his face. His troops hit the ground. 

When the thing did not explode, Polybotes bent down cautiously and 
picked it up. 

He roared in outrage. “A Ding Dong? You dare insult me with a Ding 
Dong?” He threw the cake back at the shop, and it vaporized in the light. 

The monsters got to their feet. Several muttered hungrily, “Ding 
Dongs? Where Ding Dongs?” 

“Let’s attack,” said the lady Cyclops. “I am hungry. My boys want 
snacks!” 

“No!” Polybotes said. “We're already late. Alcyoneus wants us at the 




camp in four days’ time. You Cyclopes move inexcusably slowly. We have 
no time for minor goddesses!” 

He aimed that last comment at the store, but got no response. 

The lady Cyclops growled. "The camp, yes. Vengeance! The orange 
and purple ones destroyed my home. Now Ma Gasket will destroy theirs! 
Do you hear me, Leo? Jason? Piper? I come to annihilate you!” 

The other Cyclopes bellowed in approval. The rest of the monsters 
joined in. 

Hazel's whole body tingled. She glanced at her friends. “Jason,” she 
whispered. “She fought Jason. He might still be alive.” 

Frank nodded. “Do those other names mean anything to you?” 

Hazel shook her head. She didn’t know any Leo or Piper at camp. 
Percy still looked sickly and dazed. If the names meant anything to him, he 
didn't show it. 

Hazel pondered what the Cyclops had said: Orange and purple ones. 
Purple — obviously the color of Camp Jupiter. But orange... Percy had 
shown up in a tattered orange shirt. That couldn't be a coincidence. 

Below them, the army began to march south again, but the giant 
Polybotes stood to one side, frowning and sniffing the air. 

“Sea god,” he muttered. To Hazel’s horror, he turned in their direction. 
“I smell sea god.” 

Percy was shaking. Hazel put her hand on his shoulder and tried to 
press him flat against the rock. 

The lady Cyclops Ma Gasket snarled. “Of course you smell sea god! 
The sea is right over there!” 

“More than that,” Polybotes insisted. “I was born to destroy Neptune. I 
can sense...” He frowned, turning his head and shaking out a few more 
snakes. 

“Do we march or sniff the air?” Ma Gasket scolded. “I don't get Ding 
Dongs, you don't get sea god!” 

Polybotes growled. “Very well. March! March!” He took one last look at 
the rainbow-encased store, then raked his fingers through his hair. He 
brought out three snakes that seemed larger than the rest, with white 
markings around their necks. “A gift, goddess! My name, Polybotes, 




means ‘Many- to-Feed!’ Here are some hungry mouths for you. See if your 
store gets many customers with these sentries outside.” 

He laughed wickedly and threw the snakes into the tall grass on the 
hillside. 

Then he marched south, his massive Komodo legs shaking the earth. 
Gradually, the last column of monsters passed over the hills and 
disappeared into the night. 

Once they were gone, the blinding rainbow shut off like a spotlight. 

Hazel, Frank, and Percy were left alone in the dark, staring across the 
road at a closed-up convenience store. 

“That was different,” Frank muttered. 

Percy shuddered violently. Hazel knew he needed help, or rest, or 
something. Seeing that army seemed to have triggered some kind of 
memory, leaving him shell-shocked. They should get him back to the boat. 

On the other hand, a huge stretch of grassland lay between them and 
the beach. Hazel got the feeling the karpoi wouldn’t stay away forever. She 
didn't like the idea of the three of them making their way back to the boat in 
the middle of the night. And she couldn’t shake the dreadful feeling that if 
she hadn’t summoned that schist, she’d be a captive of the giant right now. 

“Let’s go to the store,” she said. “If there’s a goddess inside, maybe 
she can help us.” 

“Excepta bunch of snake things are guarding the hill now,” Frank said. 
“And that burning rainbow might comeback.” 

They both looked at Percy, who was shaking like he had hypothermia. 

“We've got to try,” Hazel said. 

Frank nodded grimly. “Well... any goddess who throws a Ding Dong at 
a giant can't be all bad. Let’s go.” 




X X 1 



FRANK 



Frank hated Ding Dongs. He hated snakes. And he hated his life. Not 
necessarily in that order. 

As he trudged up the hill, he wished that he could pass out like Hazel 
— just go into a trance and experience some other time, like before he got 
drafted for this insane quest, before he found out his dad was a godly drill 
sergeant with an ego problem. 

His bow and spear slapped against his back. He hated the spear, too. 
The moment he got it, he silently swore he'd never use it. A real man’s 
weapon — Mars was a moron. 

Maybe there had been a mix-up. Wasn’t there some sort of DNA test 
for gods’ kids? Perhaps the godly nursery had accidentally switched Frank 
with one of Mars’s buff little bully babies. No way would Frank’s mother 
have gotten involved with that blustering war god. 

She was a natural warrior, Grandmother’s voice argued. 

It is no surprise a god would fall in love wth her, given our family. 
Ancient blood. The blood of princes and heroes. 

Frank shook the thought out of his head. He was no prince or hero. He 
was a lactose-intolerant klutz, who couldn’t even protect his friend from 
getting kidnapped by wheat. 

His new medals felt cold against his chest: the centurion’s crescent, 
the Mural Crown. He should've been proud of them, but he felt like he'd 
only gotten them because his dad had bullied Reyna. 

Frank didn’t know how his friends could stand to be around him. Percy 



had made it clear that he hated Mars, and Frank couldn’t blame him. Hazel 
kept watching Frank out of the corner of her eye, like she was afraid he 
might turn into a muscle-bound freak. 

Frank looked down at his body and sighed. Correction: even more of 
a muscle-bound freak. If Alaska really was a land beyond the gods, Frank 
might stay there. He wasn't sure he had anything to return to. 

Don’t whine, his grandmother would say. Zhang men do not whine. 

She was right. Frank had a job to do. He had to complete this 
impossible quest, which at the moment meant reaching the convenience 
store alive. 

As they got closer, Frank worried that the store might burst into 
rainbow light and vaporize them, but the building stayed dark. The snakes 
Polybotes had dropped seemed to have vanished. 

They were twenty yards from the porch when something hissed in the 
grass behind them. 

"Go!” Frank yelled. 

Percy stumbled. While Hazel helped him up, Frank turned and nocked 
an arrow. 

He shot blindly. He thought he’d grabbed an exploding arrow, but it 
was only a signal flare. It skidded through the grass, bursting into orange 
flame and whistling: WOO! 

At least it illuminated the monster. Sitting in a patch of withered yellow 
grass was a lime-colored snake as short and thick as Frank’s arm. Its 
head was ringed with a mane of spiky white fins. The creature stared at the 
arrow zipping by as if wondering, What the heck is that? 

Then it fixed its large, yellow eyes on Frank. It advanced like an 
inchworm, hunching up in the middle. Wherever it touched, the grass 
withered and died. 

Frank heard his friends climbing the steps of the store. He didn’t dare 
turn and run. He and the snake studied each other. The snake hissed, 
flames billowing from its mouth. 

"Nice creepy reptile,” Frank said, very aware of the driftwood in his 
coat pocket. “Nice poisonous, fire-breathing reptile.” 

“Frank!” Hazel yelled behind him. “Come on!” 




The snake sprang at him. It sailed through the air so fast, there wasn't 
time to nock an arrow. Frank swung his bow and smacked the monster 
down the hill. It spun out of sight, wailing, “Screeeee!" 

Frank felt proud of himself until he looked at his bow, which was 
steaming where it had touched the snake. He watched in disbelief as the 
wood crumbled to dust. 

He heard an outraged hiss, answered by two more hisses farther 
downhill. 

Frank dropped his disintegrating bow and ran for the porch. Percy and 
Hazel pulled him up the steps. When Frank turned, he saw all three 
monsters circling in the grass, breathing fire and turning the hillside brown 
with their poisonous touch. They didn't seem able or willing to come closer 
to the store, but that wasn't much comfort to Frank. He'd lost his bow. 

“We'll never get out of here,” he said miserably. 

"Then we'd better go in.” Hazel pointed to the hand-painted sign over 
the door: rainbow organic foods &lifestyles. 

Frank had no idea what that meant, but it sounded better than flaming 
poisonous snakes. He followed his friends inside. 

As they stepped through the door, lights came on. Flute music started up 
like they’d walked onto a stage. The wide aisles were lined with bins of 
nuts and dried fruit, baskets of apples, and clothing racks with tie-dyed 
shirts and gauzy Tinker 

Bell-type dresses. The ceiling was covered in wind chimes. Along the 
walls, glass cases displayed crystal balls, geodes, macrame dream 
catchers, and a bunch of other strange stuff. Incense must have been 
burning somewhere. It smelled like a bouquet of flowers was on fire. 

“Fortune-teller’s shop?” Frank wondered. 

“Hope not,” Hazel muttered. 

Percy leaned against her. He looked worse than ever, like he’d been 
hit with a sudden flu. His face glistened with sweat. “Sit down...” he 
muttered. “Maybe water.” 

“Yeah,” Frank said. “Let’s find you a place to rest.” 

The floorboards creaked under their feet. Frank navigated between 




two Neptune statue fountains. 

A girl popped up from behind the granola bins. “Help you?” 

Frank lurched backward, knocking over one of the fountains. A stone 
Neptune crashed to the floor. The sea god’s head rolled off and water 
spewed out of his neck, spraying a rack of tie-dyed man satchels. 

“Sorry!” Frank bent down to clean up the mess. He almost goosed the 
girl with his spear. 

“Eep!” she said. “Hold it! It’s okay!” 

Frank straightened slowly, trying not to cause any more damage. 
Hazel looked mortified. Percy turned a sickly shade of green as he stared 
at the decapitated statue of his dad. 

The girl clapped her hands. The fountain dissolved into mist. The water 
evaporated. She turned to Frank. “Really, it’s no problem. Those Neptune 
fountains are so grumpy-looking, they bum me out.” 

She reminded Frank of the college-age hikers he some times saw in 
Lynn Canyon Park behind his grandmother’s house. She was short and 
muscular, with lace-up boots, cargo shorts, and a bright yellow T-shirt that 
read R.O.F.L. Rainbow Organic Foods & Lifestyles. She looked young, 
but her hair was frizzy white, sticking out on either side of her head like the 
white of a giant fried egg. 

Frank tried to remember how to speak. The girl's eyes were really 
distracting. The irises changed color from gray to black to white. 

"Uh... sorry about the fountain,” he managed. “We were just — ” 

“Oh, I know!” the girl said. “You want to browse, it’s all right. Demigods 
are welcome. Take your time. You're not like those awful monsters. They 
just want to use the restroom and never buy anything!” 

She snorted. Her eyes flashed with lightning. Frank glanced at Hazel 
to see if he'd imagined it, but Hazel looked just as surprised. 

From the back of the store, a woman’s voice called: “Fleecy? Don't 
scare the customers, now. Bring them here, will you?” 

“Your name is Fleecy?” Hazel asked. 

Fleecy giggled. “Well, in the language of the nebulae it’s actually — ” 
She made a series of crackling and blowing noises that reminded Frank of 
a thunderstorm giving way to a nice cold front. “But you can call me 




Fleecy.” 

“Nebulae . . .’’Percy muttered in a daze. “Cloud nymphs.” 

Fleecy beamed. “Oh, I like this one! Usually no one knows about cloud 
nymphs. But dear me, he doesn't look so good. Come to the back. My 
boss wants to meet you. We'll get your friend fixed up.” 

Fleecy led them through the produce aisle, between rows of 
eggplants, kiwis, lotus fruit, and pomegranates. At the back of the store, 
behind a counter with an old-fashioned cash register, stood a middle-aged 
woman with olive skin, long black hair, rimless glasses, and a T-shirt that 
read: The Goddess Is Alive! She wore amber necklaces and turquoise 
rings. She smelled like rose petals. 

She looked friendly enough, but something about her made Frank feel 
shaky, like he wanted to cry. It took him a second, then he realized what it 
was — the way she smiled with just one corner of her mouth, the warm 
brown color of her eyes, the tilt of her head, like she was considering a 
question. She reminded Frank of his mother. 

“Hello!” She leaned over the counter, which was lined with dozens of 
little statues — waving Chinese cats, meditating Buddhas, Saint Francis 
bobble heads, and novelty dippy drinking birds with top hats. “So glad 
you're here. I'm Iris!” 

Hazel's eyes widened. "Not the Iris — the rainbow goddess?” 

Iris made a face. “Well, that’s my official job, yes. But I don't define 
myself by my corporate identity. In my spare time, I run this!” She gestured 
around her proudly. “The R.O.F.L. Co-op — an employee-run cooperative 
promoting healthy alternative lifestyles and organic foods.” 

Frank stared at her. “But you throw Ding Dongs at monsters.” 

Iris looked horrified. “Oh, they’re not Ding Dongs.” She rummaged 
under the counter and brought out a package of chocolate-covered cakes 
that looked exactly like Ding Dongs. “These are gluten-free, no-sugar- 
added, vitamin-enriched, soy-free, goat-milk-and-seaweed-based 
cupcake simulations.” 

"All natural!” Fleecy chimed in. 

“I stand corrected.” Frank suddenly felt as queasy as Percy. 

Iris smiled. “You should try one, Frank. You’re lactose intolerant, aren't 




you?” 

“How did you — ” 

“I know these things. Being the messenger goddess... well, I do learn a 
lot, hearing all the communications from the gods and so on.” She tossed 
the cakes on the counter. “Besides, those monsters should be glad to have 
some healthy snacks. Always eating junk food and heroes. They’re so 
unenlightened. I couldn’t have them tramping through my store, tearing up 
things and disturbing our feng shui." 

Percy leaned against the counter. He looked like he was going to 
throw up all over the goddess's feng shui. “Monsters marching south,” he 
said with difficulty. "Going to destroy our camp. Couldn't you stop them?” 

“Oh, I’m strictly nonviolent,” Iris said. “I can act in self-defense, but I 
won't be drawn into any more Olympian aggression, thank you very much. 
I've been reading about Buddhism. And Taoism. I haven’t decided 
between them.” 

“But...” Hazel looked mystified. “Aren't you a Greek goddess?” 

Iris crossed her arms. “Don’t try to put me in a box, demigod! I'm not 
defined by my past.” 

“Urn, okay,” Hazel said. “Could you at least help our friend here? I think 
he's sick.” 

Percy reached across the counter. For a second Frank was afraid he 
wanted the cupcakes. "Iris-message,” he said. “Can you send one?” 

Frank wasn't sure he'd heard right. "Iris-message?” 

“It’s...” Percy faltered. “Isn't that something you do?” 

Iris studied Percy more closely. “Interesting. You're from Camp Jupiter, 
and yet.. .Oh, Isee. Juno is up to her tricks.” 

"What?” Hazel asked. 

Iris glanced at her assistant, Fleecy. They seemed to have a silent 
conversation. Then the goddess pulled a vial from behind the counter and 
sprayed some honeysuckle-smelling oil around Percy’s face. “There, that 
should balance your chakra. As for Iris-messages — that’s an ancient way 
of communication. The Greeks used it. The Romans never took to it — 
always relying on their road systems and giant eagles and whatnot. But 
yes, I imagine... Fleecy, could you give it a try?” 




“Sure, boss!” 

Iris winked at Frank. “Don't tell the other gods, but Fleecy handles 
most of my messages these days. She's wonderful at it, really, and I don't 
have time to answer all those requests personally. It messes up my wa.” 

“Your wa?” Frank asked. 

“Mmm. Fleecy, why don’t you take Percy and Hazel into the back? You 
can get them something to eat while you arrange their messages. And for 
Percy. ..yes, memory sickness. I imagine that old Polybotes... well, meeting 
him in a state of amnesia can’t be good for a child of P — that is to say, 
Neptune. Fleecy, give him a cup of green tea with organic honey and 
wheat germ and some of my medicinal powder number five. That should fix 
him up.” 

Hazel frowned. “What about Frank?” 

Iris turned to him. She tilted her head quizzically, just the way his 
mother used to — as if Frank were the biggest question in the room. 

“Oh, don't worry,” Iris said. “Frank and I have a lotto talk about.” 




XXII 



FRANK 



Frank would’ve preferred to go with his friends, even if it meant he had to 
endure green tea with wheat germ. But Iris roped her arm through his and 
led him to a cafe table at a bay window. Frank set his spear on the floor. 
He sat across from Iris. Outside in the dark, the snake monsters restlessly 
patrolled the hillside, spewing fire and poisoning the grass. 

“Frank, I know how you feel,” Iris said. “I imagine that half-burned stick 
in your pocket gets heavier every day.” 

Frank couldn’t breathe. His hand went instinctively to his coat. “How do 
you — ?” 

“I told you. I know things. I was Juno’s messenger for ages. I know why 
she gave you a reprieve.” 

“A reprieve?” Frank brought out the piece of firewood and unwrapped 
it from its cloth. As unwieldy as Mars’s spear was, the piece of tinder was 
worse. Iris was right. It weighed him down. 

“Juno saved you for a reason,” the goddess said. “She wants you to 
serve her plan. If she hadn't appeared that day when you were a baby and 
warned your mother about the firewood, you would’ve died. You were born 
with too many gifts. That sort of power tends to burn out a mortal life.” 

“Too many gifts?” Frank felt his ears getting warm with anger. “I don’t 
have any gifts!” 

“That’s not true, Frank.” Iris swiped her hand in front of her like she was 
cleaning a windshield. A miniature rainbow appeared. “Think about it.” 

An image shimmered in the rainbow. Frank saw himself when he was 



four years old, running across Grandmother's backyard. His mother leaned 
out the window of the attic, high above, waving and calling to get his 
attention. Frank wasn't supposed to be in the backyard by himself. He 
didn't know why his mother was up in the attic, but she told him to stay by 
the house, not to go too far. Frank did exactly the opposite. He squealed 
with delight and ran to the edge of the woods, where he came face to face 
with a grizzly bear. 

Until Frank saw that scene in the rainbow, the memory had been so 
hazy, he thought he'd dreamed it. Now he could appreciate just how surreal 
the experience had been. The bear regarded the little boy, and it was 
difficult to tell who was more startled. Then Frank's mother appeared at his 
side. There was no way she should have been able to get down from the 
attic so fast. She put herself between the bear and Frank and told him to 
run to the house. This time, Frank obeyed. When he turned at the back 
porch, he saw his mother coming out of the woods. The bear was gone. 
Frank asked what had happened. His mother smiled. Mama Bear just 
needed directions, she said. 

The scene in the rainbow changed. Frank saw himself as a six-year- 
old, curling up in his mother’s lap even though he was much too big for that. 
His mother's long black hair was pulled back. Her arms were around him. 
She wore her rimless glasses that Frank always liked to steal, and her 
fuzzy gray fleece pullover that smelled like cinnamon. She was telling him 
stories about heroes, pretending they were all related to Frank: one was 
Xu Fu, who sailed in search of the elixir of life. The rainbow image had no 
sound, but Frank remembered his mother's words: He was your great- 
great-great-... She would poke Frank’s stomach every time she said great- 
, dozens of times, until he was giggling uncontrollably. 

Then there was Sung Guo, also called Seneca Gracchus, who fought 
twelve Roman dragons and sixteen Chinese dragons in the western 
deserts of China. He was the strongest dragon of all, you see, his mother 
said. That’s how he could beat them! Frank didn’t know what that meant, 
but it sounded exciting. 

Then she poked his belly with so many greats, Frank rolled onto the 
floor to escape the tickling. And your very oldest ancestor that we knowof: 
he was the Prince ofPylos! Hercules fought him once. It was a hard fight! 




Did we win? Frank asked. 

His mother laughed, but there was sadness in her voice. No, our 
ancestor lost. But it wasnt easy for Hercules. Imagine trying to fight a 
swarm of bees. That’s howit was. Even Hercules had trouble! 

The comment made no sense to Frank, then or now. His ancestor had 
been a beekeeper? 

Frank hadn’t thought about these stories in years, but now they came 
back to him as clearly as his mother's face. It hurt to see her again. Frank 
wanted to go back to that time. He wanted to be a little kid and curl up on 
her lap. 

In the rainbow image, little Frank asked where their family was from. 
So many heroes! Were they from Pylos, or Rome, or China, or Canada? 

His mother smiled, tilting her head as if considering howto answer. 

Li-Jien, she said at last. Our family is from many places, but our 
home is Li-Jien. Always remember, Frank: you have a special gift. You 
can be anything. 

The rainbow dissolved, leaving just Iris and Frank. 

“I don't understand.” His voice was hoarse. 

"Your mother explained it,” Iris said. “You can be anything.” 

It sounded like one of those stupid things parents say to boost your 
self-esteem — a worn-out slogan that could be printed on Iris's T-shirts, right 
along with The Goddess Is Alive! and My Other Car Is a Magic Carpet! 
But the way Iris said it, it sounded like a challenge. 

Frank pressed his hand against his pants pocket, where he kept his 
mother's sacrifice medal. The silver medallion was cold as ice. 

“I cant be anything,” Frank insisted. “I've got zero skills.” 

“What have you tried?” Iris asked. “You wanted to be an archer. You 
managed that pretty well. You've only scratched the surface. Your friends 
Hazel and Percy — they’re both stretched between worlds: Greek and 
Roman, the past and the present. But you are stretched more than either of 
them. 

Your family is ancient — the blood of Pylos on your mother’s side, and 
your father is Mars. No wonder Juno wants you to be one of her seven 




heroes. She wants you to fight the giants and Gaea. But think about this: 
What do you want?” 

“I don’t have any choice,” Frank said. “I'm the son of the stupid war 
god. I have to go on this quest and — ” 

“Have to,” Iris said. "Not vent to. I used to think like that. Then I got 
tired of being everyone's servant. Fetch goblets of wine for Jupiter. Deliver 
letters for Juno. Send messages back and forth across the rainbow for 
anyone with a golden drachma .” 

"A golden what?” 

"Not important. But I learned to let go. I started R.O.F.L., and now I'm 
free of that baggage. You can let go, too. Maybe you can’t escape fate. 
Someday that piece of wood wll burn. I foresee that you’ll be holding it 
when it happens, and your life will end — ” 

"Thanks,” Frank muttered. 

“ — but that just makes your life more precious! You don't have to be 
what your parents and your grandmother expect. 

You don’t have to follow the war god’s orders, or Juno’s. Do your own 
thing, Frank! Find a new path!” 

Frank thought about that. The idea was thrilling: reject the gods, his 
destiny, his dad. He didn’t want to be a war god's son. His mother had 
died in a war. Frank had lost everything thanks to a war. Mars clearly didn't 
know the first thing about him. Frank didn't want to be a hero. 

“Why are you telling me this?” he asked. “You want me to abandon the 
quest, let Camp Jupiter be destroyed? My friends are counting on me.” 

Iris spread her hands. “I can’t tell you what to do, Frank. 

But do what you want, not what they tell you to do. Where did 
conforming ever get me? I spent five millennia serving everyone else, and I 
never discovered my own identity. What's my sacred animal? No one 
bothered to give me one. Where are my temples? They never made any. 
Well, fine! I’ve found peace here at the co-op. You could stay with us, if you 
want. 

Become a ROFLcopter.” 

“A what, now?” 




"The point is you have options. If you continue this quest. ..what 
happens when you free Thanatos? Will it be good for your family? Your 
friends?” 

Frank remembered what his grandmother had said: she had an 
appointment with Death. Grandmother infuriated him sometimes; but still, 
she was his only living family, the only person alive who loved him. If 
Thanatos stayed chained up, Frank might not lose her. And Flazel — 
somehow she had come back from the Underworld. If Death took her 
again, Frank wouldn’t be able to stand it. Not to mention Frank's own 
problem: according to Iris, he should have died when he was a baby. All 
that stood between him and Death was a half-burned stick. Would 
Thanatos take him away, too? 

Frank tried to imagine staying here with Iris, putting on a R.O.F.L. shirt, 
selling crystals and dream catchers to demigod travelers and lobbing 
gluten-free cupcake simulations at passing monsters. Meanwhile, an 
undying army would overrun Camp Jupiter. 

You can be anything, his mother had said. 

No, he thought. I cant be that selfish. 

“I have to go,” he said. “It’s my job.” 

Iris sighed. “I expected as much, but I had to try. The task ahead of 
you... Well, I wouldn’t wish it on anyone, especially a nice boy like you. If 
you must go, at least I can offer some advice. You’ll need help finding 
Thanatos.”"You know where the giants are hiding him?” Frank asked. 

Iris gazed thoughtfully at the wind chimes swaying on the ceiling. “No... 
Alaska is beyond the gods’ sphere of control. The location is shielded from 
my sight. But there is someone who would know. Seek out the seer 
Phineas. He’s blind, but he can see the past, present, and future. He 
knows many things. He can tell you where Thanatos is being held.” 

"Phineas...” Frank said. “Wasn't there a story about him?” 

Iris nodded reluctantly. “In the old days, he committed horrible crimes. 
He used his gift of sight for evil. Jupiter sent the harpies to plague him. The 
Argonauts — including your ancestor, by the way — ” 

“The prince of Pylos?” 

Iris hesitated. “Yes, Frank. Though his gift, his story. .. that you must 




discover on your own. Suffice it to say, the Argonauts drove away the 
harpies in exchange for Phineas’s help. That was eons ago, but I 
understand Phineas has returned to the mortal world. You’ll find him in 
Portland, Oregon, which is on your way north. But you must promise me 
one thing. If he's still plagued by harpies, do not kill them, no matter what 
Phineas promises you. Win his help some other way. The harpies are not 
evil. They're my sisters.” 

“Your sisters?” 

"I know. I don’t look old enough to be the harpies’ sister, but it’s true. 
And Frank... there’s another problem. If you’re determined to leave, you'll 
have to clear those basilisks off the hill.” 

“You mean the snakes?” 

"Yes,” Iris said. “Basilisk means ‘little crown,’ which is a cute name for 
something that’s not very cute. I’d prefer not to have them killed. They're 
living creatures, after all. But you won’t be able to leave until they're gone. If 
your friends try to battle them... well, I foresee see bad things happening. 
Only you have the ability to kill the monsters.” 

“But how?” 

She glanced down at the floor. Frank realized that she was looking at 
his spear. 

“I wish there was another way,” she said. “If you had some weasels, for 
instance. Weasels are deadly to basilisks.” 

"Fresh out of weasels,” Frank admitted. 

"Then you will have to use your father’s gift. Are you sure you wouldn't 
like to live here instead? We make excellent lactose-free rice milk.” 

Frank rose. “How do I use the spear?” 

"You'll have to handle that on your own. I can’t advocate violence. 
While you’re doing battle, I'll check on your friends. I hope Fleecy found the 
right medicinal herbs. The last time, we had a mix-up.... Well, I don’t think 
those heroes wanted to be daisies.” 

The goddess stood. Her glasses flashed, and Frank saw his own 
reflection in the lenses. He looked serious and grim, nothing like the little 
boy he'd seen in those rainbow images. 

“One last bit of advice, Frank,” she said. “You’re destined to die 




holding that piece of firewood, watching it burn. But perhaps if you didn't 
keep it yourself. Perhaps if you trusted someone enough to hold it for 
you...” 

Frank's fingers curled around the tinder. "Are you offering?” 

Iris laughed gently. “Oh, dear, no. I'd lose it in this collection. It would 
get mixed up with my crystals, or I’d sell it as a driftwood paperweight by 
accident. No, I meant a demigod friend. Someone close to your heart.” 

Hazel, Frank thought immediately. There was no one he trusted more. 
But how could he confess his secret? If he admitted how weak he was, that 
his whole life depended on a half-burned stick... Hazel would never see 
him as a hero. He'd never be her knight in armor. And how could he expect 
her to take that kind of burden from him? 

He wrapped up the tinder and slipped it back into his coat. “Thanks ... 
thanks, Iris.” 

She squeezed his hand. “Don’t lose hope, Frank. Rainbows always 
stand for hope.” 

She made her way toward the back of the store, leaving Frank alone. 

“Hope,” Frank grumbled. “I'd rather have a few good weasels.” 

He picked up his father's spear and marched out to face the basilisks. 




X X I I 1 



FRANK 



Frank missed his bow. 

He wanted to stand on the porch and shoot the snakes from a 
distance. A few well-placed exploding arrows, a few craters in the hillside 
— problem solved. 

Unfortunately, a quiver full of arrows wouldn’t do Frank much good if he 
couldn’t shoot them. Besides, he had no idea where the basilisks were. 
They’d stopped blowing fire as soon as he came outside. 

He stepped off the porch and leveled his golden spear. He didn’t like 
fighting up close. He was too slow and bulky. He'd done okay during the 
war games, but this was real. There were no giant eagles ready to snatch 
him up and take him to the medics if he made a mistake. 

You can be anything. His mother’s voice echoed in his mind. 

Great, he thought. I want to be good with a spear. And immune to 
poison — and fire. 

Something told Frank his wish had not been granted. The spear felt 
just as awkward in his hands. 

Patches of flame still smoldered on the hillside. The acrid smoke 
burned in Frank’s nose. The withered grass crunched under his feet. 

He thought about those stories his mother used to tell — generations of 
heroes who had battled Hercules, fought dragons, and sailed monster- 
infested seas. Frank didn’t understand how he could have evolved from a 
line like that, or how his family had migrated from Greece through the 
Roman Empire all the way to China, but some unsettling ideas were 



stalling to form. For the first time, he started to wonder about this Prince of 
Pylos, and his great-grandfather Shen Lun's disgrace at Camp Jupiter, 
and what the family powers might be. 

The gift has never kept our family safe, Grandmother had warned. 

A reassuring thought as Frank hunted poisonous fire- breathing devil 
snakes. 

The night was quiet except for the crackle of brush fires. Every time a 
breeze made the grass rustle, Frank thought about the grain spirits who'd 
captured Hazel. Hopefully they’d gone south with the giant Polybotes. 
Frank didn't need any more problems right now. 

He crept downhill, his eyes stinging from the smoke. Then, about 
twenty feet ahead, he sawa burst of flame. 

He considered throwing his spear. Stupid idea. Then he'd be without a 
weapon. Instead he advanced toward the fire. 

He wished he had the gorgon's blood vials, but they were back at the 
boat. He wondered if gorgon blood could cure basilisk poison.... But even 
if he had the vials and managed to choose the right one, he doubted he'd 
have time to take it before he crumbled to dust like his bow. 

He emerged in a clearing of burned grass and found himself face-to- 
face with a basilisk. 

The snake rose up on its tail. It hissed, and expanded the collar of 
white spikes around its neck. Little crowi, Frank remembered. That's what 
“basilisk” meant. He had thought basilisks were huge dragon like monsters 
that could petrify you with their eyes. Somehow the real basilisk was even 
more terrible. As tiny as it was, this extra-small package of fire, poison, 
and evil would be much harder to kill than a large, bulky lizard. Frank had 
seen how fast it could move. 

The monster fixed its pale yellow eyes on Frank. 

Why wasn't it attacking? 

Frank's golden spear felt cold and heavy. The dragon-tooth point 
dipped toward the ground all on its own — like a dowsing rod searching for 
water. 

“Stop that.” Frank struggled to the lift the spear. He’d have enough 
trouble jabbing the monster without his spear fighting against him. Then he 




heard the grass rustle on either side of him. The other two basilisks 
slithered into the clearing. 

Frank had walked straight into an ambush. 




XXIV 



FRANK 



Frank swb>t his spear back and forth. “Stay back!” His voice sounded 
squeaky. “I’ve got .. . um... amazing powers — and stuff.” 

The basilisks hissed in three-part harmony. Maybe they were laughing. 

The spear tip was almost too heavy to lift now, as if the jagged white 
triangle of bone was trying to touch the earth. Then something clicked in 
the back of Frank’s mind: Mars had said the tip was a dragon’s tooth. 
Hadn’t there been some story about dragon’s teeth planted in the ground? 
Something he'd read in monster class at camp...? 

The basilisks circled him, taking their time. Maybe they were 
hesitating because of the spear. Maybe they just couldn’t believe how 
stupid Frank was. 

It seemed like madness, but Frank let the spear tip drop. He drove it 
into the ground. Crack. 

When he lifted it out, the tip was gone — broken off in the dirt. 

Wonderful. Now he had a golden stick. 

Some crazy part of him wanted to bring out his piece of firewood. If he 
was going to die anyway, maybe he could set off a massive blaze — 
incinerate the basilisks, so at least his friends could get away. 

Before he could get up the courage, the ground rumbled at his feet. 
Dirt spewed everywhere, and a skeletal hand clawed the air. The basilisks 
hissed and backed up. 

Frank couldn’t blame them. He watched in horror as a human skeleton 
crawled out of the ground. It took on flesh as if someone were pouring 



gelatin over its bones, covering them in glowing, transparent gray skin. 
Then ghostly clothes enveloped it — a muscle shirt, camo pants, and army 
boots. Everything about the creature was gray: gray clothes on gray flesh 
on gray bones. 

It turned toward Frank. Its skull grinned beneath an expressionless 
gray face. Frank whimpered like a puppy. His legs shook so badly he had 
to support himself with the spear shaft. The skeleton warrior was waiting, 
Frank realized — waiting for orders. 

“Kill the basilisks!” he yelped. “Not me!” 

The skeletal warrior leaped into action. He grabbed the nearest 
snake, and though his gray flesh began to smoke on contact, he strangled 
the basilisk with one hand and flung down its limp body. The other two 
basilisks hissed with rage. One sprang at Frank, but he knocked it aside 
with the butt of his spear. 

The other snake belched fire directly in the skeleton’s face. The 
warrior marched forward and stomped the basilisk's head under his boot. 

Frank turned toward the last basilisk, which was curled at the edge of 
the clearing studying them. Frank’s Imperial gold spear shaft was 
steaming, but unlike his bow, it didn't seem to be crumbling from the 
basilisk's touch. The skeleton warrior’s right foot and hand were slowly 
dissolving from poison. His head was on fire, but otherwise he looked 
pretty good. 

The basilisk did the smart thing. It turned to flee. In a blur of motion, the 
skeleton pulled something from his shirt and flung it across the clearing, 
impaling the basilisk in the dirt. Frank thought it was a knife. Then he 
realized it was one of the skeleton's own ribs. 

Frank was glad his stomach was empty. “That. . .that was gross.” 

The skeleton stumbled over to the basilisk. It pulled out its rib and used 
it to cut off the creature’s head. The basilisk dissolved into ashes. Then the 
skeleton decapitated the other two monster carcasses and kicked all the 
ashes to disperse them. Frank remembered the two gorgons in the Tiber 
— the way the river had pulled apart their remains to keep them from re- 
forming. "You're making sure they don't come back,” Frank realized. 

“Or slowing them down, anyway.” 




The skeleton warrior stood at attention in front of Frank. Its poisoned 
foot and hand were mostly gone. Its head was still burning. 

“What — what are you?” Frank asked. He wanted to add, Please don’t 
hurt me. 

The skeleton saluted with its stump of a hand. Then it began to 
crumble, sinking back into the ground. 

“Wait!” Frank said. “I don’t even know what to call you! Tooth Man? 
Bones? Gray?” 

As its face disappeared beneath the dirt, the warrior seemed to grin at 
the last name — or maybe that was just its skeletal teeth showing. Then it 
was gone, leaving Frank alone with his pointless spear. 

“Gray,” he muttered. “Okay ... but...” 

He examined the tip of his spear. Already, a new dragon tooth was 
starting to grow out of the golden shaft. 

You get three charges out of it, Mars had said, so use it wsety. 

Frank heard footsteps behind him. Percy and Hazel ran into the 
clearing. Percy looked better, except he was carrying a-tie-dyed man 
satchel from R.O.F.L. — definitely not his style. Riptide was in his hand. 
Hazel had drawn her spatha. 

"Are you okay?” she asked. 

Percy turned in a circle, looking for enemies. “Iris told us you were out 
here battling the basilisks by yourself, and we were like, What?\Ne came 
as fast as we could. What happened?” 

“I’m not sure,” Frank admitted. 

Hazel crouched next to the dirt where Gray disappeared. “I sense 
death. Either my brother has been here or. ..the basilisks are dead?” 

Percy stared at him in awe. "You killed them a//?” 

Frank swallowed. He already felt like enough of a misfit without trying 
to explain his new undead minion. 

Three charges. Frank could call on Gray twice more. But he’d sensed 
malevolence in the skeleton. It was no pet. It was a vicious, undead killing 
force, barely controlled by the power of Mars. Frank got the feeling it would 
do what he said — but if his friends happened to be in the line of fire, oh 




well. And if Frank was a little slow giving it directions, it might start killing 
whatever was in its path, including its master. 

Mars had told him the spear would give him breathing room until he 
learned to use his mother’s talents. Which meant Frank needed to learn 
those talents — fast. 

"Thanks a lot, Dad,” he grumbled. 

"What?” Hazel asked. “Frank, are you okay?” 

“I’ll explain later,” he said. “Right now, there’s a blind man in Portland 
we've got to see.” 




XXV 



PERCY 



Percy already felt like the lamest demigod in the history of lame. The 
purse was the final insult. 

They’d left R.O.F.L. in a hurry, so maybe Iris hadn’t meant the bag as a 
criticism. She’d quickly stuffed it with vitamin-enriched pastries, dried fruit 
leather, macrobiotic beef jerky, and a few crystals for good luck. Then 
she'd shoved it at Percy: 

Here, youll need this. Oh, that looks good. The purse — sorry, 
masculine accessory bag — was rainbow tie-dyed with a peace symbol 
stitched in wooden beads and the slogan Hug the Whole World. Percy 
wished it said Hug the Commode. He felt like the bag was a comment on 
his mas sive, incredible uselessness. As they sailed north, he put the man 
satchel as far away from him as he could, but the boat was small. 

He couldn’t believe how he’d broken down when his friends had 
needed him. First, he’d been dumb enough to leave them alone when he 
had run back to the boat, and Hazel had gotten kidnapped. Then he'd 
watched that army marching south and had some kind of nervous 
breakdown. 

Embarrassing? Yeah. But he couldn’t help it. When he’d seen those 
evil centaurs and Cyclopes, it had seemed so wrong, so backward, that he 
thought his head would explode. And the giant Polybotes... that giant had 
given him a feeling the opposite of what he felt when he stood in the ocean. 
Percy’s energy had drained out of him, leaving him weak and feverish, like 
his insides were eroding. 



Iris's medicinal tea had helped his body feel better, but his mind still 
hurt. He'd heard stories about amputees who had phantom pains where 
their missing legs and arms used to be. That's how his mind felt — like his 
missing memories were aching. 

Worst of all, the farther north Percy went, the more those memories 
faded. He had started to feel better at Camp Jupiter, remembering random 
names and faces. But now even Annabeth’s face was getting dimmer. At 
R.O.F.L., when he’d tried to send an Iris-message to Annabeth, Fleecy had 
just shaken her head sadly. 

It’s like you’re dialing somebody, she said, but you’ve forgotten the 
number. Or someone is jamming the signal. Sorry, dear. I just cant 
connect you. 

He was terrified that he’d lose Annabeth’s face completely when he 
got to Alaska. Maybe he'd wake up one day and not remember her name. 

Still, he had to concentrate on the quest. The sight of that enemy army 
had shown him what they were up against. It was early in the morning of 
June 21 , now. They had to get to Alaska, find Thanatos, locate the legion's 
standard, and make it back to Camp Jupiter by the evening of June 24. 
Four days. Meanwhile, the enemy had only a few hundred miles to march. 

Percy guided the boat through the strong currents off the northern 
California coast. The wind was cold, but it felt good, clearing some of the 
confusion from his head. He bent his will to push the boat as hard as he 
could. The hull rattled as the Pax plowed its way north. 

Meanwhile, Hazel and Frank traded stories about the events at 
Rainbow Organic Foods. Frank explained about the blind seer Phineas in 
Portland, and how Iris had said that he might be able to tell them where to 
find Thanatos. Frank wouldn’t say how he had managed to kill the 
basilisks, but Percy got the feeling it had something to do with the broken 
point of his spear. Whatever had happened, Frank sounded more scared 
of the spear than the basilisks. 

When he was done, Hazel told Frank about their time with Fleecy. 

“So this Iris-message worked?” Frank asked. 

Hazel gave Percy a sympathetic look. She didn’t mention his failure to 
contact Annabeth. 




“I got in touch with Reyna,” she said. “You’re supposed to throw a coin 
into a rainbow and say this incantation, like O Iris, goddess of the rainbow 
accept my offering. Except Fleecy kind of changed it. She gave us her — 
what did she call it — her direct number? So I had to say, O Fleecy, do me 
a solid. Show Reyna at Camp Jupiter. I felt kind of stupid, but it worked. 
Reyna's image appeared in the rainbow, like in a two-way video call. She 
was in the baths. Scared her out of her mind.” 

“That I would’ve paid to see,” Frank said. “I mean — her expression. 
Not, you know, the baths.” 

“Frank!” Hazel fanned her face like she needed air. It was an old- 
fashioned gesture, but cute, somehow. “Anyway, we told Reyna about the 
army, but like Percy said, she pretty much already knew. It doesn’t change 
anything. She's doing what she can to shore up the defenses. Unless we 
unleash Death, and get back with the eagle — ” 

“The camp can't stand against that army,” Frank finished. “Not without 
help.” 

After that, they sailed in silence. 

Percy kept thinking about Cyclopes and centaurs. He thought about 
Annabeth, the satyr Grover, and his dream of a giant warship under 
construction. 

You came from some\Miere, Reyna had said. 

Percy wished he could remember. He could call for help. Camp 
Jupiter shouldn't have to fight alone against the giants. There must be 
allies out there. 

He fingered the beads on his necklace, the lead prabaf/otablet, and 
the silver ring Reyna had given him. Maybe in Seattle he’d be able to talk 
to her sister Hylla. She might send help — assuming she didn’t kill Percy on 
sight. 

After a few more hours of navigating, Percy’s eyes started to droop. 
He was afraid he’d pass out from exhaustion. Then he caught a break. A 
killer whale surfaced next to the boat, and Percy struck up a mental 
conversation with him. 

It wasn’t exactly like talking, but it went something like this: Could you 
give us a ride north, Percy asked, like as close to Portland as possible? 




Eat seals, the whale responded. Are you seals? 

No, Percy admitted. I’ve got a man satchel full of macrobiotic beef 
jerky, though. 

The whale shuddered. Promise not to feed me this, and I vull take you 
north. 

Deal. 

Soon Percy had made a makeshift rope harness and strapped it 
around the whale's upper body. They sped north under whale-power, and 
at Hazel and Frank's insistence, Percy settled in for a nap. 

His dreams were as disjointed and scary as ever. 

He imagined himself on Mount Tamalpais, north of San Francisco, 
fighting at the old Titan stronghold. That didn't make sense. He hadn't been 
with the Romans when they had attacked, but he saw it all clearly: a Titan in 
armor, Annabet hand two other girls fighting at Percy’s side. One of the 
girls died in the battle. Percy knelt over her, watching as she dissolved into 
stars. 

Then he saw the giant warship in its dry dock. The bronze dragon 
figurehead glinted in the morning light. The riggings and armaments were 
complete, but something was wrong. A hatch in the deck was open, and 
smoke poured from some kind of engine. A boy with curly black hair was 
cursing as he pounded the engine with a wrench. Two other demigods 
squatted next to him, watching with concern. One was a teenage guy with 
short blond hair. The other was a girl with long dark hair. 

"You realize it’s the solstice,” the girl said. “We’re supposed to leave 
today.” 

"I know that!” The curly-haired mechanic whacked the engine a few 
more times. “Could be the fizzrockets. Could be the samophlange. Could 
be Gaea messing with us again. I'm not sure!” 

“How long?” the blond guy asked. 

“Two, three days?” 

“They may not have that long,” the girl warned. 

Something told Percy that she meant Camp Jupiter. Then the scene 




shifted again. 

He saw a boy and his dog roaming over the yellow hills of California. 
But as the image became clearer, Percy realized it wasn't a boy. It was a 
Cyclops in ragged jeans and a flannel shirt. The dog was a shambling 
mountain of black fur, easily as big as a rhino. The Cyclops carried a 
massive club over his shoulder, but Percy didn't feel that he was an enemy. 
He kept yelling Percy’s name, calling him. ..brother? 

“He smells farther away,” the Cyclops moaned to the dog. “Why does 
he smell farther?” 

“ROOF!” the dog barked, and Percy’s dream changed again. 

He saw a range of snowy mountains, so tall they broke the clouds. 
Gaea's sleeping face appeared in the shadows of the rocks. 

Such a valuable pawn, she said soothingly. Do not fear, Percy 
Jackson. Come north! Your friends wll die, yes. But I wll preserve you for 
now I have great plans for you. 

In a valley between the mountains lay a massive field of ice. The edge 
plunged into the sea, hundreds of feet below, with sheets of frost constantly 
crumbling into the water. On top of the ice field stood a legion camp — 
ramparts, moats, towers, barracks, just like Camp Jupiter except three 
times as large. At the crossroads outside the principia, a figure in dark 
robes stood shackled to the ice. Percy’s vision swept past him, into the 
headquarters. There, in the gloom, sat a giant even bigger than Polybotes. 
His skin glinted gold. Displayed behind him were the tattered, frozen 
banners of a Roman legion, including a large, golden eagle with its wings 
spread. 

We await you, the giant’s voice boomed. While you fumble your way 
north, trying to find me, my armies wll destroy your precious 
camps — first the Romans, then the others. You cannot wn, little 
demigod. 

Percy lurched awake in cold gray daylight, rain falling on his face. 

“I thought / slept heavily,” Hazel said. “Welcome to Portland.” 

Percy sat up and blinked. The scene around him was so different from 
his dream, he wasn't sure which was real. The Pax floated on an iron-black 




river through the middle of a city. Heavy clouds hung low overhead. The 
cold rain was so light, it seemed suspended in the air. On Percy’s left were 
industrial warehouses and railroad tracks. To his right was a small 
downtown area — an almost cozy-looking cluster of towers between the 
banks of the river and a line of misty forested hills. 

Percy rubbed the sleep out of his eyes. “How did we get here?” 

Frank gave him a look like, You wont believe this. "The killer whale 
took us as far as the Columbia River. Then he passed the harness to a 
couple of twelve-foot sturgeons.” 

Percy thought Frank had said surgeons. He had this weird image of 
giant doctors in scrubs and face masks, pulling their boat upstream. Then 
he realized Frank meant sturgeons, like the fish. He was glad he hadn't 
said anything. Would have been embarrassing, his being son of the sea 
god and all. 

"Anyway,” Frank continued, “the sturgeons pulled us for a long time. 
Hazel and I took turns sleeping. Then we hit this river — ” 

“The Willamette,” Hazel offered. 

“Right,” Frank said. “After that, the boat kind of took over and 
navigated us here all by itself. Sleep okay?” 

As the Pax glided south, Percy told them about his dreams. He tried to 
focus on the positive: a warship might be on the way to help Camp Jupiter. 
A friendly Cyclops and a giant dog were looking for him. He didn't mention 
what Gaea had said: Your friends wii die. 

When Percy described the Roman fort on the ice, Hazel looked 
troubled. 

“So Alcyoneus is on a glacier,” she said. “That doesn’t narrow it down 
much. Alaska has hundreds of those.” 

Percy nodded. “Maybe this seer dude Phineas can tell us which one.” 

The boat docked itself at a wharf. The three demigods stared up at the 
buildings of drizzly downtown Portland. 

Frank wiped the rain off his flat-top hair. 

“So now we find a blind man in the rain,” Frank said. 

“Yay.” 




XXVI 



PERCY 



It WASN’T as hard as they thought. The screaming and the weed whacker 
helped. 

They’d brought lightweight Polartec jackets with their supplies, so they 
bundled up against the cold rain and walked for a few blocks through the 
mostly deserted streets. This time Percy was smart and brought most of 
his supplies from the boat. He even stuffed the macrobiotic jerky in his coat 
pocket, in case he needed to threaten any more killer whales. 

They saw some bicycle traffic and a few homeless guy shuddled in 
doorways, but the majority of Portlanders seemed to be staying indoors. 

As they made their way down Glisan Street, Percy looked longingly at 
the folks in the cafes enjoying coffee and pastries. He was about to 
suggest that they stop for breakfast when he heard a voice down the street 
yelling: “HA! TAKE THAT, STUPID CHICKENS!” followed by the revving of 
a small engine and a lot of squawking. 

Percy glanced at his friends. “You think — ?” 

“Probably,” Frank agreed. 

They ran toward the sounds. 

The next block over, they found a big open parking lot with tree-lined 
sidewalks and rows of food trucks facing the streets on all four sides. 
Percy had seen food trucks before, but never so many in once place. 
Some were simple white metal boxes on wheels, with awnings and serving 
counters. Others were painted blue or purple or polka-dotted, with big 
banners out front and colorful menu boards and tables like do-it-yourself 



sidewalk cafes. One advertised Korean/Brazilian fusion tacos, which 
sounded like some kind of top-secret radioactive cuisine. Another offered 
sushi on a stick. A third was selling deep-fried ice cream sandwiches. The 
smell was amazing — dozens of different kitchens cooking at once. 

Percy’s stomach rumbled. Most of the food carts were open for 
business, but there was hardly anyone around. They could get anything 
they wanted! Deep-fried ice cream sandwiches? Oh, man, that sounded 
way better than wheat germ. 

Unfortunately, there was more happening than just cooking. In the 
center of the lot, behind all the food trucks, an old man in a bathrobe was 
running around with a weed whacker, screaming at a flock of bird-ladies 
who were trying to steal food off a picnic table. 

“Harpies,” said Hazel. "Which means — ” 

“That's Phineas,” Frank guessed. 

They ran across the street and squeezed between the 
Korean/Brazilian truck and a Chinese egg roll burrito vendor. 

The backs of the food trucks weren’t nearly as appetizing as the fronts. 
They were cluttered with stacks of plastic buckets, overflowing garbage 
cans, and makeshift clotheslines hung with wet aprons and towels. The 
parking lot itself was nothing but a square of cracked asphalt, marbled with 
weeds. In the middle was a picnic table piled high with food from all the 
different trucks. 

The guy in the bathrobe was old and fat. He was mostly bald, with 
scars across his forehead and a rim of stringy white hair. His bathrobe was 
spattered with ketchup, and he kept stumbling around in fuzzy pink bunny 
slippers, swinging his gas-powered weed whacker at the half-dozen 
harpies who were hovering over his picnic table. 

He was clearly blind. His eyes were milky white, and usually he missed 
the harpies by a lot, but he was still doing a pretty good job fending them 
off. 

“Back, dirty chickens!” he bellowed. 

Percy wasn’t sure why, but he had a vague sense that harpies were 
supposed to be plump. These looked like they were starving. Their human 
faces had sunken eyes and hollow cheeks. Their bodies were covered in 




molting feathers, and their wings were tipped with tiny, shriveled hands. 
They wore ragged burlap sacks for dresses. As they dived for the food, 
they seemed more desperate than angry. Percy felt sorry for them. 

WHIRRRR! The old man swung his weed whacker. He grazed one of 
the harpies’ wings. The harpy yelped in pain and fluttered off, dropping 
yellow feathers as she flew. 

Another harpy circled higher than the rest. She looked younger and 
smaller than the others, with bright-red feathers. 

She watched carefully for an opening, and when the old man's back 
was turned, she made a wild dive for the table. She grabbed a burrito in 
her clawed feet, but before she could escape, the blind man swung his 
weed whacker and smacked her in the back so hard, Percy winced. The 
harpy yelped, dropped the burrito, and flew off. 

“Hey, stop it!” Percy yelled. 

The harpies took that the wrong way. They glanced over at the three 
demigods and immediately fled. Most of them fluttered away and perched 
in the trees around the square, staring dejectedly at the picnic table. The 
red-feathered one with the hurt back flew unsteadily down Glisan Street 
and out of sight. 

“Ha!” The blind man yelled in triumph and killed the power on his weed 
whacker. He grinned vacantly in Percy’s direction. “Thank you, strangers! 
Your help is most appreciated.” 

Percy bit back his anger. He hadn’t meant to help the old man, but he 
remembered that they needed information from him. 

“Uh, whatever.” He approached the old guy, keeping one eye on the 
weed whacker. “I’m Percy Jackson. This is — ” 

“Demigods!” the old man said. “I can always smell demigods.” 

Hazel frowned. “Do we smell that bad?” 

The old man laughed. “Of course not, my dear. But you’d be surprised 
how sharp my other senses became once I was blinded. I’m Phineas. And 
you — wait, don't tell me — ” 

He reached for Percy’s face and poked him in the eyes. 

“Ow!” Percy complained. 

“Son of Neptune!” Phineas exclaimed. “I thought I smelled the ocean 




on you, Percy Jackson. I'm also a son of Neptune, you know.” 

“Hey. ..yeah. Okay.” Percy rubbed his eyes. Just his luck he was 
related to this grubby old dude. He hoped all sons of Neptune didn’t share 
the same fate. First, you start carrying a man satchel. Next thing you know, 
you're running around in a bathrobe and pink bunny slippers, chasing 
chickens with a weed whacker. 

Phineas turned to Hazel. "And here. ..Oh my, the smell of gold and 
deep earth. Hazel Levesque, daughter of Pluto. And next to you — the son 
of Mars. But there's more to your story, Frank Zhang — ” 

"Ancient blood,” Frank muttered. "Prince of Pylos. Blah, blah, blah.” 

“Periclymenus, exactly! Oh, he was a nice fellow. I loved the 
Argonauts!” 

Frank's mouth fell open. “W-wait. Perry who?' 

Phineas grinned. “Don’t worry. I know about your family. That story 
about your great-grandfather? He didn't rea//ydestroy the camp. Now, what 
an interesting group. Are you hungry?” 

Frank looked like he'd been run over by a truck, but Phineas had 
already moved on to other matters. He waved his hand at the picnic table. 
In the nearby trees, the harpies shrieked miserably. As hungry as Percy 
was, he couldn’t stand to think about eating with those poor bird ladies 
watching him. 

“Look, I’m confused,” Percy said. “We need some information. We 
were told — ” 

“ — that the harpies were keeping my food away from me,” Phineas 
finished, “and if you helped me, I'd help you.” 

“Something like that,” Percy admitted. 

Phineas laughed. “That’s old news. Do I look like I’m missing any 
meals?” 

He patted his belly, which was the size of an overinflated basketball. 

“Urn ... no,” Percy said. 

Phineas waved his weed whacker in an expansive gesture. All three of 
them ducked. 

"Things have changed, my friends!” he said. “When I first got the gift of 




prophecy, eons ago, it’s true Jupiter cursed me. He sent the harpies to 
steal my food. You see, I had a bit of a big mouth. I gave away too many 
secrets that the gods wanted kept.” He turned to Hazel. “For instance, 
you're supposed to be dead. And you — ” He turned to Frank. “Your life 
depends on a burned stick.” 

Percy frowned. “What are you talking about?” 

Hazel blinked like she'd been slapped. Frank looked like the truck had 
backed up and run over him again. 

"And you,” Phineas turned to Percy, “well now, you don’t even know 
who you are! I could tell you, of course, but. ..ha! What fun would that be? 
And Brigid O’Shaughnessy shot Miles Archer in The Maltese Falcon. And 
Darth Vader is actually Luke’s father. And the winner of the next Super 
Bowl will be — ” 

“Got it,” Frank muttered. 

Hazel gripped her sword like she was tempted to pommel-whip the old 
man. “So you talked too much, and the gods cursed you. Why did they 
stop?” 

“Oh, they didn’t!” The old man arched his bushy eyebrows like, Can 
you believe it? “I had to make a deal with the Argonauts. They wanted 
information too, you see. I told them to kill the harpies, and I'd cooperate. 
Well, they drove those nasty creatures away, but Iris wouldn’t let them kill 
the harpies. An outrage! So this time, when my patron brought me back to 
life — ” 

“Your patron?” Frank asked. 

Phineas gave him a wicked grin. “Why, Gaea, of course. 

Who do you think opened the Doors of Death? Your girl friend here 
understands. Isn't Gaea your patron, too?” 

Hazel drew her sword. “I'm not his — I don't — Gaea is not my patron!” 

Phineas looked amused. If he had heard the sword being drawn, he 
didn't seem concerned. “Fine, if you want to be noble and stick with the 
losing side, that’s your business. But Gaea is waking. She’s already 
rewritten the rules of life and death! I’m alive again, and in exchange for my 
help — a prophecy here, a prophecy there — I get my fondest wish. The 
tables have been turned, so to speak. Now I can eat all I want, all day long, 




and the harpies have to watch and starve.” 

He revved his weed whacker, and the harpies wailed in the trees. 

"They're cursed!” the old man said. “They can eat only food from my 
table, and they can’t leave Portland. Since the Doors of Death are open, 
they can't even die. It’s beautiful!” 

“Beautiful?” Frank protested. “They’re living creatures. Why are you so 
mean to them?” 

“They're monsters!” Phineas said. “And mean ? Those feather-brained 
demons tormented me for years!” 

“But it was their duty,” Percy said, trying to control himself. “Jupiter 
ordered them to.” 

“Oh, I'm mad at Jupiter, too," Phineas agreed. “In time, Gaea will see 
that the gods are properly punished. Horrible job they’ve done, ruling the 
world. But for now, I’m enjoying Portland. The mortals take no notice of me. 
They think I'm just a crazy old man shooing away pigeons!” 

Hazel advanced on the seer. “You’re awful!” she told Phineas. “You 
belong in the Fields of Punishment!” 

Phineas sneered. “One dead person to another, girlie? I wouldn’t be 
talking. You started this whole thing! If it weren’t for you, Alcyoneus wouldn't 
be alive!” 

Hazel stumbled back. 

“Hazel?” Frank's eyes got as wide as quarters. “What's he talking 
about?” 

“Ha!” Phineas said. “You'll find out soon enough, Frank Zhang. Then 
we'll see if you're still sweet on your girlfriend. 

But that’s not what you’re here about, is it? You want to find Thanatos. 
He's being kept at Alcyoneus’s lair. I can tell you where that is. Of course I 
can. But you'll have to do me a favor.” 

“Forget it,” Hazel snapped. “You're working for the enemy. 

We should send you back to the Underworld ourselves.” 

“You could try.” Phineas smiled. “But I doubt I'd stay dead very long. 
You see, Gaea has shown me the easy way back. And with Thanatos in 
chains, there's no one to keep me down! Besides, if you kill me, you won't 
qet my secrets.” 




Percy was tempted to let Hazel use her sword. In fact he wanted to 
strangle the old man himself. 

Camp Jupiter, he told himself. Saving the camp is more important. 
He remembered Alcyoneus taunting him in his dreams. If they wasted time 
searching through Alaska looking for the giant’s lair, Gaea's armies would 
destroy the Romans... and Percy’s other friends, wherever they were. 

He gritted his teeth. “What's the favor?” 

Phineas licked his lips greedily. “There’s one harpy who’s quicker than 
the rest.” 

“The red one,” Percy guessed. 

“I’m blind! I don’t know colors!” the old man groused. “At any rate, 
she's the only one I have trouble with. She's wily, that one. Always does her 
own thing, never roosts with the others. She gave me these.” 

He pointed at the scars on his forehead. 

“Capture that harpy,” he said. “Bring her to me. I want her tied up 
where I can keep an eye on her. ..ah, so to speak. Harpies hate being tied 
up. It causes them extreme pain. Yes, I’ll enjoy that. Maybe I’ll even feed her 
so that she lasts longer.” 

Percy looked at his friends. They came to a silent agreement: they 
would neverhelp this creepy old man. On the other hand, they had to get 
his information. They needed a Plan B. 

“Oh, go talk among yourselves," Phineas said breezily. “I don’t care. 
Just remember that without my help, your quest will fail. And everyone you 
love in the world will die. Now, off with you! Bring me a harpy!” 




XXVII 



PERCY 



“Well need some of your food.” Percy shouldered his way around the old 
man and snatched stuff off the picnic table — a covered bowl of Thai 
noodles in mac-and-cheese sauce, and a tubular pastry that looked like a 
combination burrito and cinnamon roll. 

Before he could lose control and smash the burrito in Phineas’s face, 
Percy said, “Come on, guys.” He led his friends out of the parking lot. 

They stopped across the street. Percy took a deep breath, trying to 
calm down. The rain had slowed to a halfhearted drizzle. The cold mist felt 
good on his face. 

“That man...” Hazel smacked the side of a bus-stop bench. 

“He needs to die. Again.” 

It was hard to tell in the rain, but she seemed to be blinking back tears. 
Her long curly hair was plastered down the sides of her face. In the gray 
light, her gold eyes looked more like tin. 

Percy remembered how confident she’d acted when they first met — 
taking control of the situation with the gorgons and ushering him to safety. 
She’d comforted him at the shrine of Neptune and made him feel welcome 
at camp. 

Now he wanted to return the favor, but he wasn’t sure how. She looked 
lost, bedraggled, and thoroughly depressed. 

Percy wasn’t surprised that she had come back from the Underworld. 
He’d suspected that for a while — the way she avoided talking about her 
past, the way Nico di Angelo had been so secretive and cautious. 



But that didn't change how Percy saw her. She seemed... well, alive, 
like a regular kid with a good heart, who deserved to grow up and have a 
future. She wasn't a ghoul like Phineas. 

“We'll get him,” Percy promised. “He's nothing like you, Hazel. I don't 
care what he says.” 

She shook her head. “You don't know the whole story. I should have 
been sent to Punishment. I — I'm just as bad — ” 

"No, you’re not!” Frank balled his fists. He looked around like he was 
searching for anybody who might disagree with him — enemies he could hit 
for Hazel’s sake. “She’s a good person!” he yelled across the street. A few 
harpies squawked in the trees, but no one else paid them any attention. 

Hazel stared at Frank. She reached out tentatively, as if she wanted to 
take his hand but was afraid he might evaporate. 

“Frank...” she stammered. “I — I don’t...” 

Unfortunately, Frank seemed wrapped up in his own thoughts. 

He slung his spear off his back and gripped it uneasily. 

“I could intimidate that old man,” he offered, “maybe scare him — ” 
"Frank, it’s okay,” Percy said. "Let’s keep that as a backup plan, but I 
don't think Phineas can be scared into cooperating. Besides, you've only 
got two more uses out of the spear, right?” 

Frank scowled at the dragon’s-tooth point, which had grown back 
completely overnight. “Yeah. I guess....” 

Percy wasn’t sure what the old seer had meant about Frank's family 
history — his great-grandfather destroying camp, his Argonaut ancestor, 
and the bit about a burned stick controlling Frank's life. But it had clearly 
shaken Frank up. Percy decided not to ask for explanations. He didn't 
want the big guy reduced to tears, especially in front of Hazel. 

“I've got an idea." Percy pointed up the street. “The red-feathered 
harpy went that way. Let’s see if we can get her to talk to us.” 

Hazel looked at the food in his hands. “You’re going to use that as 
bait?” 

“More like a peace offering,” Percy said. “Come on. Just try to keep 
the other harpies from stealing this stuff, okay?” 




Percy uncovered the Thai noodles and unwrapped the cinnamon 
burrito. Fragrant steam wafted into the air. They walked down the street, 
Hazel and Frank with their weapons out. The harpies fluttered after them, 
perching on trees, mailboxes, and flagpoles, following the smell of food. 

Percy wondered what the mortals saw through the Mist. Maybe they 
thought the harpies were pigeons and the weapons were lacrosse sticks 
or something. Maybe they just thought the Thai mac and cheese was so 
good it needed an armed escort. 

Percy kept a tight grip on the food. He’d seen how quickly the harpies 
could snatch things. He didn’t want to lose his peace offering before he 
found the red-feathered harpy. 

Finally he spotted her, circling above a stretch of parkland that ran for 
several blocks between rows of old stone buildings. Paths stretched 
through the park under huge maple and elm trees, past sculptures and 
playgrounds and shady benches. The place reminded Percy of. ..some 
other park. Maybe in his hometown? He couldn't remember, but it made 
him feel homesick. 

They crossed the street and found a bench to sit on, next to a big 
bronze sculpture of an elephant. 

"Looks like Hannibal,” Hazel said. 

“Except it’s Chinese,” Frank said. “My grandmother has one of those.” 
He flinched. “I mean, hers isn't twelve feet tall. But she imports stuff.. .from 
China. We’re Chinese.” He looked at Hazel and Percy, who were trying 
hard not to laugh. “Could I just die from embarrassment now?” he asked. 

"Don't worry about it, man," Percy said. “Let’s see if we can make 
friends with the harpy.” 

He raised the Thai noodles and fanned the smell upward — spicy 
peppers and cheesy goodness. The red harpy circled lower. 

“We won't hurt you,” Percy called up in a normal voice. “We just want to 
talk. Thai noodles for a chance to talk, okay?” 

The harpy streaked down in a flash of red and landed on the elephant 
statue. 

She was painfully thin. Her feathery legs were like sticks. Her face 
would have been pretty except for her sunken cheeks. She moved in jerky 




birdlike twitches, her coffee-brown eyes darting restlessly, her fingers 
clawing at her plumage, her earlobes, her shaggy red hair. 

“Cheese,” she muttered, looking sideways. “Ella doesn't like cheese.” 

Percy hesitated. “Your name is Ella?” 

“Ella. Aella. ‘Harpy.’ In English. In Latin. Ella doesn’t like cheese.” She 
said all that without taking a breath or making eye contact. Her hands 
snatched at her hair, her burlap dress, the raindrops, whatever moved. 

Quicker than Percy could blink, she lunged, snatched the cinnamon 
burrito, and appeared atop the elephant again. 

“Gods, she's fast!” Hazel said. 

"And heavily caffeinated,” Frank guessed. 

Ella sniffed the burrito. She nibbled at the edge and shuddered from 
head to foot, cawing like she was dying. “Cinnamon is good,” she 
pronounced. “Good for harpies. Yum.” 

She started to eat, but the bigger harpies swooped down. Before 
Percy could react, they began pummeling Ella with their wings, snatching 
at the burrito. 

"Nnnnnnooo.” Ella tried to hide under her wings as her sisters ganged 
up on her, scratching with their claws. “N-no,” she stuttered. “N-n-no!” 

“Stop it!” Percy yelled. He and his friends ran to help, but it was too 
late. A big yellow harpy grabbed the burrito and the whole flock scattered, 
leaving Ella cowering and shivering on top of the elephant. 

Hazel touched the harpy's foot. “I'm so sorry. Are you okay?” 

Ella poked her head out of her wings. She was still trembling. With her 
shoulders hunched, Percy could see the bleeding gash on her back where 
Phineas had hit her with the weed whacker. She picked at her feathers, 
pulling out tufts of plumage. “S-small Ella,” she stuttered angrily. “W-weak 
Ella. No cinnamon for Ella. Only cheese.” 

Frank glared across the street, where the other harpies were sitting in 
a maple tree, tearing the burrito to shreds. “We’ll get you something else,” 
he promised. 

Percy set down the Thai noodles. He realized that Ella was different, 
even for a harpy. But after watching her get picked on, he was sure of one 
thing: whatever else happened, he was going to help her. 




“Ella,” he said, “we want to be your friends. We can get you more food, 
but — ” 

“Friends , "Ella said. “Ten seasons. 1994 to 2004.’” She glanced 
sideways at Percy, then looked in the air and started reciting to the clouds. 
‘“A half-blood of the eldest gods, shall reach sixteen against all odds.' 
Sixteen. You’re sixteen. Page sixteen, Mastering the Art of French 
Cooking. 'Ingredients: Bacon, Butter.”' 

Percy’s ears were ringing. He felt dizzy, like he’d just plunged a 
hundred feet underwater and back up again. “Ella. ..what was that you 
said?” 

“‘Bacon.’” She caught a raindrop out of the air. “‘Butter.’” 

“No, before that. Those li nes... I kno wthose lines.” 

Next to him, Hazel shivered. “It does sound familiar, like... I don't know, 
like a prophecy. Maybe it’s something she heard Phineas say?” 

At the name Phineas, Ella squawked in terror and flew away. 

“Wait!” Hazel called. “I didn't mean — Oh, gods, I'm stupid.” 

“It’s all right.” Frank pointed. “Look.” 

Ella wasn’t moving as quickly now. She flapped her way to the top of a 
three-story red brick building and scuttled out of sight over the roof. A 
single red feather fluttered down to the street. 

"You think that’s her nest?” Frank squinted at the sign on the building. 
“Multnomah County Library?” 

Percy nodded. “Let’s see if it’s open.” 

They ran across the street and into the lobby. 

A library wouldn't have been Percy’s first choice for someplace to visit. 
With his dyslexia, he had enough trouble reading signs. A whole building 
full of books? That sounded about as much fun as Chinese water torture or 
getting his teeth extracted. 

As they jogged through the lobby, Percy figured Annabeth would like 
this place. It was spacious and brightly lit, with big vaulted windows. Books 
and architecture, that was definitely her.... 

He froze in his tracks. 

"Percy?” Frank asked. “What's wrong?” 




Percy tried desperately to concentrate. Where had those thoughts 
come from? Architecture, books... Annabeth had taken him to the library 
once, back home in — in — The memory faded. Percy slammed his fist into 
the side of a bookshelf. 

"Percy?” Hazel asked gently. 

He was so angry, so frustrated with his missing memories that he 
wanted to punch another bookshelf, but his friends’ concerned faces 
brought him back to the present. 

“I’m — I'm all right,” he lied. “Just got dizzy for a sec. Let’s find a way to 
the roof.” 

It took them a while, but they finally found a stairwell with roof access. 
At the top was a door with a handle alarm, but someone had propped it 
open with a copy of War and Peace. 

Outside, Ella the harpy huddled in a nest of books under a makeshift 
cardboard shelter. 

Percy and his friends advanced slowly, trying not to scare her. Ella 
didn't pay them any attention. She picked at her feathers and muttered 
under her breath, like she was practicing lines for a play. 

Percy got within five feet and knelt down. “Hi. Sorry we scared you. 
Look, I don't have much food, but...” 

He took some of the macrobiotic jerky out of his pocket. Ella lunged 
and snatched it immediately. She huddled back in her nest, sniffing the 
jerky, but sighed and tossed it away. “N-not from his table. Ella cannot eat. 
Sad. Jerky would be good for harpies. "“Not from. ..Oh, right,” Percy said. 
“That's part of the curse. You can only eat his food.” 

“There has to be a way,” Hazel said. 

‘“Photosynthesis,”’ Ella muttered. ‘“Noun. Biology. The synthesis of 
complex organic materials.' ‘It was the best of times, it was the worst of 
times; it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness... 

“What is she saying?” Frank whispered. 

Percy stared at the mound of books around her. They all looked old 
and mildewed. Some had prices written in marker on the covers, like the 
library had gotten rid of them in a clearance sale. 

“She's quoting books,” Percy guessed. 




“Farmer's Almanac 1965," Ella said. “‘Start breeding animals, 
January twenty-sixth.’” 

“Ella,” he said, “have you read all of these?” 

She blinked. “More. More downstairs. Words. Words calm Ella down. 
Words, words, words.” 

Percy picked up a book at random — a tattered copy ofA History of 
Horseracing. “Ella, do you remember the, urn, third paragraph on page 
sixty-two — ” 

'“Secretariat,”’ Ella said instantly, '“favored three to two-in the 1973 
Kentucky Derby, finished at standing track record of one fifty-nine and two 
fifths.'” 

Percy closed the book. His hands were shaking. “Word for word.” 

“That's amazing,” Hazel said. 

“She's a genius chicken,” Frank agreed. 

Percy felt uneasy. He was starting to form a terrible idea about why 
Phineas wanted to capture Ella, and it wasn’t because she’d scratched 
him. Percy remembered that line she’d recited, A half-blood of the eldest 
gods. He was sure it was about him. 

“Ella,” he said, “we're going to find a way to break the curse. Would 
you like that?” 

'“It’s Impossible,”’ she said. ‘“Recorded in English by Perry Como, 
1970.’” 

“Nothing's impossible,” Percy said. “Now, look, I'm going to say his 
name. You don’t have to run away. We’re going to save you from the curse. 
We just need to figure out a way to beat ... Phineas.” 

He waited for her to bolt, but she just shook her head vigorously. “N-n- 
no! No Phineas. Ella is quick. Too quick for him. B-but he wants to ch- 
chain Ella. He hurts Ella.” 

She tried to reach the gash on her back. 

“Frank,” Percy said, “you have first-aid supplies?” 

“On it.” Frank brought out a thermos full of nectar and explained its 
healing properties to Ella. When he scooted closer, she recoiled and 
started to shriek. Then Hazel tried, and Ella let her pour some nectar on her 




back. The wound began to close. 

Hazel smiled. “See? That's better.” 

“Phineas is bad,” Ella insisted. “And weed whackers. And cheese.” 
"Absolutely,” Percy agreed. “We won’t let him hurt youagain. We need 
to figure out how to trick him, though. You harpies must know him better 
than anybody. Is there any way we can trick him?” 

“N-no,” Ella said. “Tricks are for kids. 50 Tricks to Teach Your Dog, by 
Sophie Collins, call number six-three-six — ” 

“Okay, Ella.” Hazel spoke in a soothing voice, like she was trying to 
calm a horse. "But does Phineas have any weaknesses?” 

“Blind. He's blind.” 

Frank rolled his eyes, but Hazel continued patiently, “Right. Besides 
that?” 

“Chance,” she said. “Games of chance. Two to one. Bad odds. Call or 
fold.” 

Percy’s spirits rose. “You mean he's a gambler?” 

"Phineas s-sees big things. Prophecies. Fates. God stuff. Not small 
stuff. Random. Exciting. And he is blind.” 

Frank rubbed his chin. “Any idea what she means?” 

Percy watched the harpy pick at her burlap dress. He felt incredibly 
sorry for her, but he was also starting to realize just how smart she was. 

“I think I get it,” he said. “Phineas sees the future. He knows tons of 
important events. But he can’t see small things — like random occurrences, 
spontaneous games of chance. That makes gambling exciting for him. If 
we can tempt him into making a bet...” 

Hazel nodded slowly. “You mean if he loses, he has to tell us where 
Thanatos is. But what do we have to wager? What kind of game do we 
play?” 

“Something simple, with high stakes,” Percy said. “Like two choices. 
One you live, one you die. And the prize has to be something Phineas 
wants... I mean, besides Ella. That's off the table.” 

“Sight,” Ella muttered. “Sight is good for blind men. 

Healing. ..nope, nope. Gaea won’t do that for Phineas. Gaea keeps 




Phineas b-blind, dependent on Gaea. Yep.” 

Frank and Percy exchanged a meaningful look. “Gorgon’s blood,” they 
said simultaneously. 

“What?” Hazel asked. 

Frank brought out the two ceramic vials he’d retrieved from the Little 
Tiber. “Ella's a genius,” he said. “Unless we die.” 

“Don't worry about that,” Percy said. “I've got a plan.” 




X X V 111 



PERCY 



The old man was right where they’d left him, in the middle of the food truck 
parking lot. He sat on his picnic bench with his bunny slippers propped up, 
eating a plate of greasy shish kebab. His weed whacker was at his side. 
His bathrobe was smeared with barbecue sauce. 

“Welcome back!” he called cheerfully. “I hear the flutter of nervous little 
wings. You’ve brought me my harpy?” 

“She’s here,” Percy said. “But she’s not yours.” 

Phineas sucked the grease off his fingers. His milky eyes seemed 
fixed on a point just above Percy's head. “I see... Well, actually, I’m blind, 
so I don't see. Have you come to kill me, then? If so, good luck completing 
your quest." 

“I’ve come to gamble.” 

The old man’s mouth twitched. He put down his shishkebab and 
leaned toward Percy. “A gamble... how interesting. Information in exchange 
for the harpy? Winner take all?” 

“No,” Percy said. “The harpy isn’t part of the deal.” 

Phineas laughed. “Really? Perhaps you don’t understand her value.” 
“She’s a person,” Percy said. “She isn’t for sale.” 

“Oh, please! You’re from the Roman camp, aren’t you? Rome was 
built on slavery. Don’t get all high and mighty with me. Besides, she isn’t 
even human. She’s a monster. A wind spirit. A minion of Jupiter.” 

Ella squawked. Just getting her into the parking lot had been a major 
challenge, but now she started backing away, muttering, “’Jupiter. 



Hydrogen and helium. Sixty-three satellites.' No minions. Nope.” 

Hazel put her arm around Ella’s wings. She seemed to be the only one 
who could touch the harpy without causing lots of screaming and twitching. 

Frank stayed at Percy’s side. He held his spear ready, as if the old 
man might charge them. 

Percy brought out the ceramic vials. “I have a different wager. We've 
got two flasks of gorgon's blood. One kills. One heals. They look exactly 
the same. Even we don’t know which is which. If you choose the right one, 
it could cure your blindness.” 

Phineas held out his hands eagerly. “Let me feel them. Let me smell 
them.” 

“Not so fast,” Percy said. "First you agree to the terms.” 

"Terms...” Phineas was breathing shallowly. Percy could tell he was 
hungry to take the offer. "Prophecy and sight ... I’d be unstoppable. I could 
own this city. I’d build my palace here, surrounded by food trucks. I could 
capture that harpy myself!” 

“N-noo,” Ella said nervously. "Nope, nope, nope.” 

A villainous laugh is hard to pull off when you’re wearing pink bunny 
slippers, but Phineas gave it his best shot. “Very well, demigod. What are 
your terms?” 

“You get to choose a vial,” Percy said. “No uncorking, no sniffing 
before you decide.” 

“That's not fair! I'm blind.” 

"And I don’t have your sense of smell,” Percy countered. “You can hold 
the vials. And I'll swear on the River Styx that they look identical. They're 
exactly what I told you: gorgon’s blood, one vial from the left side of the 
monster, one from the right. And I swear that none of us knows which is 
which.” 

Percy looked back at Hazel. “Uh, you're our Underworld expert. With 
all this weird stuff going on with Death, is an oath on the River Styx still 
binding?” 

"Yes,” she said, without hesitation. “To break such a vow... Well, just 
don't do it. There are worse things than death.” Phineas stroked his beard. 
“So I choose which vial to drink. You have to drink the other one. We swear 




to drink at the same time.” 

“Right,” Percy said. 

"The loser dies, obviously," Phineas said. “That kind ofpoison would 
probably keep even me from coming back tolife . . .for a long time, at least. 
My essence would be scattered and degraded. So I'm risking quite a lot.” 
“But if you win, you get everything,” Percy said. “If Idie, my friends will 
swear to leave you in peace and not take revenge. You'd have your sight 
back, which even Gaea won't give you.” 

The old man’s expression soured. Percy could tell he'd struck a nerve. 
Phineas wanted to see. As much as Gaea had given him, he resented 
being kept in the dark. 

“If I lose,” the old man said, “I'll be dead, unable to give you 
information. How does that help you?” 

Percy was glad he’d talked this through with his friends ahead of time. 
Frank had suggested the answer. 

“You write down the location of Alcyoneus’s lair ahead of time,” Percy 
said. “Keep it to yourself, but swear on the River Styx it’s specific and 
accurate. You also have to swear that if you lose and die, the harpies will 
be released from their curse.” 

“Those are high stakes,” Phineas grumbled. “You face death, Percy 
Jackson. Wouldn't it be simpler just to hand over the harpy?” 

“Not an option.” 

Phineas smiled slowly. “So you are starting to understand her worth. 
Once I have my sight, I’ll capture her myself, you know. Whoever controls 
that harpy. . .well, I was a king once. This gamble could make me a king 
again.” 

“You're getting ahead of yourself,” Percy said. “Do we have a deal?” 
Phineas tapped his nose thoughtfully. “I can’t foresee the outcome. 
Annoying how that works. A completely unexpected gamble... it makes the 
future cloudy. But I can tell you this, Percy Jackson — a bit of free advice. If 
you survive today, you're not going to like your future. A big sacrifice is 
coming, and you won’t have the courage to make it. That will cost you 
dearly. It will cost the world dearly. It might be easier if you just choose the 
poison.” 




Percy’s mouth tasted like Iris’s sour green tea. He wanted to think the 
old man was just psyching him out, but something told him the prediction 
was true. He remembered Juno’s warning when he’d chosen to go to 
Camp Jupiter: You will feel pain, misery, and loss beyond anything 
you’ve ever known. But you might have a chance to save your old friends 
and family. 

In the trees around the parking lot, the harpies gathered to watch as if 
they sensed what was at stake. Frank and Hazel studied Percy’s face with 
concern. He’d assured them the odds weren’t as bad as fifty-fifty. He did 
have a plan. Of course, the plan could backfire. His chance of survival 
might be a hundred percent — or zero. He hadn't mentioned that. 

"Do we have a deal?” he asked again. 

Phineas grinned. “I swear on the River Styx to abide by the terms, just 
as you have described them. Frank Zhang, you're the descendant of an 
Argonaut. I trust your word. If I win, do you and your friend Hazel swear to 
leave me in peace, and not seek revenge?” 

Frank's hands were clenched so tight Percy thought he might break 
his gold spear, but he managed to grumble, “I swear it on the River Styx.” 

“I also swear,” Hazel said. 

“Swear,” Ella muttered. ‘“Swear not by the moon, the inconstant 
moon.’” 

Phineas laughed. “In that case, find me something to write with. Let’s 
get started.” 

Frank borrowed a napkin and a pen from a food truck vendor. Phineas 
scribbled something on the napkin and put it in his bathrobe pocket. “I 
swear this is the location of Alcyoneus’s lair. Not that you’ll live long enough 
to read it.” 

Percy drew his sword and swept all the food off the picnic table. 
Phineas sat on one side. Percy sat on the other. 

Phineas held out his hands. “Let me feel the vials.” 

Percy gazed at the hills in the distance. He imagined the shadowy 
face of a sleeping woman. He sent his thoughts into the ground beneath 
him and hoped the goddess was listening. 




Okay, Gaea, he said. I’m calling your bluff. You say I’m a valuable 
pawi. You say you’ve got plans for me, and you’re going to spare me 
until I make it north. Who’s more valuable to you — me, or this old man? 
Because one of us is about to die. 

Phineas curled his fingers in a grasping motion. “Losing your nerve, 
Percy Jackson? Let me have them.” 

Percy passed him the vials. 

The old man compared their weight. He ran his fingers along the 
ceramic surfaces. Then he set them both on the table and rested one hand 
lightly on each. A tremor passed through the ground — a mild earthquake, 
just strong enough to make Percy’s teeth chatter. Ella cawed nervously. 

The vial on the left seemed to shake slightly more than the one on the 
right. 

Phineas grinned wickedly. He closed his fingers around the left-hand 
vial. “You were a fool, Percy Jackson. I choose this one. Now we drink.” 

Percy took the vial on the right. His teeth were chattering. 

The old man raised his vial. “A toast to the sons of Neptune.” 

They both uncorked their vials and drank. 

Immediately, Percy doubled over, his throat burning. His mouth tasted 
like gasoline. 

“Oh, gods,” Hazel said behind him. 

"Nope!” Ella said. "Nope, nope, nope.” 

Percy’s vision blurred. He could see Phineas grinning in triumph, 
sitting up straighter, blinking his eyes in anticipation. 

"Yes!” he cried. “Any moment now, my sight will return!” 

Percy had chosen wrong. He’d been stupid to take such a risk. He felt 
like broken glass was working its way through his stomach, into his 
intestines. 

"Percy!” Frank gripped his shoulders. "Percy, you can't die!” 

He gasped for breath... and suddenly his vision cleared. 

At the same moment, Phineas hunched over like he'd been punched. 

"You — you can’t!” the old man wailed. "Gaea, you — you — ” 

He staggered to his feet and stumbled away from the table, clutching 




his stomach. “I’m too valuable!” 

Steam came out of his mouth. A sickly yellow vapor rose from his 
ears, his beard, his blind eyes. 

“Unfair!” he screamed. “You tricked me!” 

He tried to claw the piece of paper out of his robe pocket, but his 
hands crumbled, his fingers turning to sand. 

Percy rose unsteadily. He didn't feel cured of anything in particular. 
His memory hadn't magically returned. But the pain had stopped. 

“No one tricked you," Percy said. “You made your choice freely, and I 
hold you to your oath.” The blind king wailed in agony. He turned in a circle, 
steaming and slowly disintegrating until there was nothing left but an old, 
stained bathrobe and a pair of bunny slippers. 

“Those,” Frank said, “are the most disgusting spoils of war ever." 

Awoman’s voice spoke in Percy’s mind. Agamble, Percy Jackson. It 
was a sleepy whisper, with just a hint of grudging admiration. You forced 
me to choose, and you are more important to my plans than the old seer. 
But do not press your luck. When your death comes, I promise it \Aill be 
much more painful than gorgon’s blood. 

Hazel prodded the robe with her sword. There was nothing underneath 
— no sign that Phineas was trying to re-form. She looked at Percy in awe. 
“That was either the bravest thing I've ever seen, or the stupidest.” 

Frank shook his head in disbelief. “Percy, how did you know? You 
were so confident he'd choose the poison.” 

“Gaea,” Percy said. “She wants me to make it to Alaska. She thinks... 
I'm not sure. She thinks she can use me as part of her plan. She influenced 
Phineas to choose the wrong vial.” 

Frank stared in horror at the remains of the old man. “Gaea would kill 
her own servant rather than you? That's what you were betting on?” 

“Plans,” Ella muttered. “Plans and plots. The lady in the ground. Big 
plans for Percy. Macrobiotic jerky for Ella.” 

Percy handed her the whole bag of jerky and she squeaked with joy. 
“Nope, nope, nope,” she muttered, half-singing. “Phineas, nope. Food and 
words for Ella, yep.” 




Percy crouched over the bathrobe and pulled the old man’s note out of 
the pocket. It read: HUBBARD GLACIER. 

All that risk for two words. He handed the note to Hazel. 

“I know where that is,” she said. “It’s pretty famous. But we've got a 
long, long way to go.” 

In the trees around the parking lot, the other harpies finally overcame 
their shock. They squawked with excitement and flew at the nearest food 
trucks, diving through the service windows and raiding the kitchens. Cooks 
shouted in many languages. Trucks shook back and forth. Feathers and 
food boxes flew everywhere. 

“We'd better get back to the boat,” Percy said. “We're running out of 
time.” 




XXIX 



HAZEL 



Even before she got on the boat, Hazel felt queasy. 

She kept thinking about Phineas with steam coming out of his eyes, 
his hands crumbling to dust. Percy had assured her that she wasn’t like 
Phineas. But she was. She'd done something even worse than torment 
harpies. 

You started this whole thing! Phineas had said. If it werent for you, 
Alcyoneus wouldntbe alive! 

As the boat sped down the Columbia River, Hazel tried to forget. She 
helped Ella make a nest out of old books and magazines they’d liberated 
from the library’s recycling bin. 

They hadn’t really planned on taking the harpy with them, but Ella acted 
like the matter was decided. 

“Friends,” she muttered. ‘“Ten seasons. 1994 to 2004.' Friends melt 
Phineas and give Ella jerky. Ella will go with her friends." 

Now she was roosting comfortably in the stern, nibbling bits of jerky 
and reciting random lines from Charles Dickens and 50 Tricks to Teach 
Your Dog. 

Percy knelt in the bow, steering them toward the ocean with his freaky 
mind-over-water powers. Hazel sat next to Frank on the center bench, their 
shoulders touching, which made her feel as jittery as a harpy. 

She remembered how Frank stood up for her in Portland, shouting, 
“She’s a good person!” like he was ready to take on anybody who denied 
it. 



She remembered the way he had looked on the hillside in Mendocino, 
alone in a clearing of poisoned grass with his spear in hand, fires burning 
all around him and the ashes of three basilisks at his feet. 

A week ago, if someone had suggested that Frank was a child of 
Mars, Hazel would have laughed. Frank was much too sweet and gentle for 
that. She had always felt protective of him because of his clumsiness and 
his knack for getting into trouble. 

Since they’d left camp, she saw him differently. He had more courage 
than she'd realized. He was the one looking out for her. She had to admit 
that the change was kind of nice. 

The river widened into the ocean. The Pax turned north. As they 
sailed, Frank kept her spirits up by telling her silly jokes — Why did the 
Minotaur cross the road? How many fauns does it take to change a 
lightbulb? He pointed out buildings along the coastline that reminded him 
of places in Vancouver. 

The sky started to darken, the sea turning the same rusty color as 
Ella's wings. June 21 was almost over. The Feast of Fortuna would happen 
in the evening, exactly seventy-two hours from now. 

Finally Frank brought out some food from his pack — sodas and 
muffins he'd scavenged from Phineas's table. He passed them around. 

“It’s okay, Hazel,” he said quietly. “My mom used to say you shouldn't 
try to carry a problem alone. But if you don’t want to talk about it, that’s 
okay.” 

Hazel took a shaky breath. She was afraid to talk — not just because 
she was embarrassed. She didn't want to black out and slip into the past. 

"You were right,” she said, “when you guessed I came back from the 
Underworld. I'm. ..I'm an escapee. I shouldn't be alive.” 

She felt like a dam had broken. The story flooded out. She explained 
how her mother had summoned Pluto and fallen in love with the god. She 
explained her mother's wish for all the riches in the earth, and how that had 
turned into Hazel’s curse. She described her life in New Orleans — 
everything except her boyfriend Sammy. Looking at Frank, she couldn't 
bring herself to talk about that. 

She described the Voice, and how Gaea had slowly taken over her 




mother's mind. She explained how they had moved to Alaska, how Hazel 
had helped to raise the giant Alcyoneus, and how she had died, sinking the 
island into Resurrection Bay. 

She knew Percy and Ella were listening, but she spoke mostly to 
Frank. When she had finished, she was afraid to look at him. She waited 
for him to move away from her, maybe tell her she was a monster after all. 

Instead, he took her hand. “You sacrificed yourself to stop the giant 
from waking. I could never be that brave.” 

She felt her pulse throbbing in her neck. “It wasn’t bravery. I let my 
mother die. I cooperated with Gaea too long. I almost let her win.” 

“Hazel,” said Percy. “You stood up to a goddess all by yourself. You 
did the right...” His voice trailed off, as if he'd had an unpleasant thought. 
“What happened in the Underworld...! mean, after you died? You should've 
gone to Elysium. But if Nico brought you back — ” 

“I didn’t go to Elysium.” Her mouth felt dry as sand. “Please don't 
ask...” 

But it was too late. She remembered her descent into the darkness, 
her arrival on the banks of the River Styx, and her consciousness began to 
slip. 

“Hazel?” Frank asked. 

'“Slip Sliding Away,’" Ella muttered. “Number five U.S. single. Paul 
Simon. Frank, go with her. Simon says, Frank, go with her.” 

Hazel had no idea what Ella was talking about, but her vision 
darkened as she clung to Frank's hand. 

She found herself back in the Underworld, and this time Frank was at 
her side. 

They stood in Charon’s boat, crossing the Styx. Debris swirled in the dark 
waters — a deflated birthday balloon, a child’s pacifier, a little plastic bride 
and groom from the top of a cake — all the remnants of human lives cut 
short. 

“Wh-where are we?” Frank stood at her side, shimmering with a 
ghostly purple light as if he'd become a Lar. 

“It’s my past.” Hazel felt strangely calm. “It’s just an echo. Don't worry.” 




The boatman turned and grinned. One moment he was a handsome 
African man in an expensive silk suit. The next moment he was a skeleton 
in a dark robe. “’Course you shouldn’t worry," he said with a British accent. 
He addressed Hazel, as if he couldn't see Frank at all. “Told you I'd take 
you across, didn’t I? 'Sail right you don't have a coin. Wouldn’t be proper, 
leaving Pluto's daughter on the wrong side of the river.” 

The boat slid onto a dark beach. Hazel led Frank to the black gates of 
Erebos. The spirits parted for them, sensing she was a child of Pluto. The 
giant three-headed dog Cerberus growled in the gloom, but he let them 
pass. Inside the gates, they walked into a large pavilion and stood before 
the judges' bench. Three black-robed figures in golden masks stared down 
at Hazel. 

Frank whimpered. “Who — ?” 

“They'll decide my fate,” she said. “Watch.” 

Just as before, the judges asked her no questions. They simply looked 
into her mind, pulling thoughts from her head and examining them like a 
collection of old photos. 

"Thwarted Gaea,” the first judge said. “Prevented Alcyoneus from 
waking.” 

“But she raised the giant in the first place,” the second judge argued. 
“Guilty of cowardice, weakness.” 

“She is young,” said the third judge. “Her mother’s life hung in the 
balance.” 

“My mother.” Hazel found the courage to speak. “Where is she? What 
is her fate?” 

The judges regarded her, their golden masks frozen in creepy smiles. 
“Your mother...” 

The image of Marie Levesque shimmered above the judges. She was 
frozen in time, hugging Hazel as the cave collapsed, her eyes shut tight. 

"An interesting question,” the second judge said. “The division of fault.” 

“Yes,” said the first judge. “The child died for a noble cause. She 
prevented many deaths by delaying the giant’s rise. She had courage to 
stand against the might of Gaea.” 

"But she acted too late,” the third judge said sadly. “She is guilty of 




aiding and abetting an enemy of the gods.” 

"The mother influenced her,” said the first judge. “The child can have 
Elysium. Eternal Punishment for Marie Levesque.” 

“No!” Hazel shouted. "No, please! That's not fair.” 

The judges tilted their heads in unison. Gold masks, Hazel thought. 
Gold has always been cursed for me. She wondered if the gold was 
poisoning their thoughts somehow, so that they'd never give her a fair trial. 

"Beware, Hazel Levesque,” the first judge warned. “Would you take full 
responsibility? You could lay this guilt on your mother’s soul. That would be 
reasonable. You were destined for great things. Your mother diverted your 
path. See what you might have been....” 

Another image appeared above the judges. Hazel saw herself as a 
little girl, grinning, with her hands covered in finger paint. The image aged. 
Hazel saw herself growing up — her hair became longer, her eyes sadder. 
She saw herself on her thirteenth birthday, riding across the fields on her 
borrowed horse. Sammy laughed as he raced after her: What are you 
running from? i’m not that ugly, am I? She saw herself in Alaska, trudging 
down Third Street in the snow and darkness on her way home from school. 

Then the image aged even more. Hazel saw herself at twenty. She 
looked so much like her mother, her hair gathered back in braids, her 
golden eyes flashing with amusement. She wore a white dress — a 
wedding dress? She was smiling so warmly, Hazel knew instinctively she 
must be looking at someone special — someone she loved. 

The sight didn’t make her feel bitter. She didn’t even wonder whom 
she would have married. Instead she thought: My mother mightVe looked 
like this if shed let go of her anger, if Gaea hadnt Misted her. 

"You lost this life,” the first judge said simply. “Special circumstances. 
Elysium for you. Punishment for your mother.” 

“No,” Hazel said. “No, it wasn’t all her fault. She was misled. She loved 
me. At the end, she tried to protect me.” 

“Hazel,” Frank whispered. “What are you doing?” 

She squeezed his hand, urging him to be silent. The judges paid him 
no attention. 

Finally the second judge sighed. “No resolution. Not enough good. Not 




enough evil.” 

"The blame must be divided,” the first judge agreed. “Both souls will be 
consigned to the Fields of Asphodel. I’m sorry, Hazel Levesque. You could 
have been a hero.” 

She passed through the pavilion, into yellow fields that went on forever. 
She led Frank through a crowd of spirits to a grove of black poplar trees. 

“You gave up Elysium,” Frank said in amazement, “so your mother 
wouldn't suffer?” 

“She didn't deserve Punishment,” Hazel said. 

"But. ..what happens now?” 

“Nothing,” Hazel said. “Nothing. ..for all eternity.” 

They drifted aimlessly. Spirits around them chattered like bats — lost 
and confused, not remembering their past or even their names. 

Hazel remembered everything. Perhaps that was because she was a 
daughter of Pluto, but she never forgot who she was, or why she was there. 

“Remembering made my afterlife harder,” she told Frank, who still 
drifted next to her as a glowing purple Lar. “So many times I tried to walk to 
my father’s palace....” She pointed to a large black castle in the distance. 
"I could never reach it. I can't leave the Fields of Asphodel.” 

"Did you ever see your mother again?” 

Hazel shook her head. “She wouldn’t know me, even if I could find her. 
These spirits... it’s like an eternal dream for them, an endless trance. This 
is the best I could do for her.” 

Time was meaningless, but after an eternity, she and Frank sat 
together under a black poplar tree, listening to the screams from the Fields 
of Punishment. In the distance, under the artificial sunlight of Elysium, the 
Isles of the Blest glittered like emeralds in a sparkling blue lake. White 
sails cut across water and the souls of great heroes basked on the 
beaches in perpetual bliss. 

“You didn’t deserve Asphodel,” Frank protested. “You should be with 
the heroes.” 

"This is just an echo,” Hazel said. “We'll wake up, Frank. It only seems 
like forever.” 

“That's not the point!" he protested. “Your life was taken from you. You 




were going to grow up to be a beautiful woman. You...” 

His face turned a darker shade of purple. “You were going to marry 
someone,” he said quietly. “You would have had a good life. You lost all 
that.” 

Hazel swallowed back a sob. It hadn’t been this hard in Asphodel the 
first time, when she was on her own. Having Frank with her made her feel 
so much sadder. But she was determined not to get angry about her fate. 

Hazel thought about that image of herself as an adult, smiling and in 
love. She knew it wouldn't take much bitterness to sour her expression and 
make her look exactly like Queen Marie. I deserve better, her mother 
always said. Hazel couldn't allow herself to feel that way. 

“I’m sorry, Frank,” she said. “I think your mother was wrong. 
Sometimes sharing a problem doesn't make it easier to carry.” 

“But it does.” Frank slipped his hand into his coat pocket. 

“In fact. ..since we’ve got eternity to talk, there's something I want to tell 
you.” 

He brought out an object wrapped in cloth, about the same size as a 
pair of glasses. When he unfolded it, Hazel saw a half-burned piece of 
driftwood, glowing with purple light. 

She frowned. “What is...” Then the truth hit her, as cold and harsh as a 
blast of winter wind. “Phineas said your life depends on a burned stick — ” 
“It’s true,” Frank said. "This is my lifeline, literally.” 

He told her how the goddess Juno had appeared when he was a 
baby, how his grandmother had snatched the piece of wood from the 
fireplace. “Grandmother said I had gifts — some talent we got from our 
ancestor, the Argonaut. That, and my dad’s being Mars...” He shrugged. 
“I’m supposed to be too powerful or something. That’s why my life can burn 
up so easily. Iris said I would die holding this, watching it burn.” 

Frank turned the piece of tinder in his fingers. Even in his ghostly 
purple form, he looked so big and sturdy. Hazel figured he would be huge 
when he was an adult — as strong and healthy as an ox. She couldn't 
believe his life depended on something as small as a stick. 

“Frank, how can you carry it around with you?” she asked. “Aren't you 
terrified something will happen to it?” 




“That's why I'm telling you.” He held out the firewood. “I know it’s a lot to 
ask, but would you keep it for me?” 

Hazel's head spun. Until now, she’d accepted Frank’s presence in her 
blackout. She’d led him along, numbly replaying her past, because it 
seemed only fair to show him the truth. 

But now she wondered if Frank was really experiencing this with her, 
or if she was just imagining his presence. Why would he trust her with his 
life? 

"Frank,” she said, “you knowwbo I am. I’m Pluto’s daughter. Everything 
I touch goes wrong. Why would you trust me?” 

"You're my best friend.” He placed the firewood in her hands. “I trust 
you more than anybody.” 

She wanted to tell him he was making a mistake. She wanted to give it 
back. But before she could say anything, a shadow fell over them. 

“Our ride is here,” Frank guessed. 

Hazel had almost forgotten she was reliving her past. Nicodi Angelo 
stood over her in his black overcoat, his Stygian iron sword at his side. He 
didn't notice Frank, but he locked eyes with Hazel and seemed to read her 
whole life. 

"You're different,” he said. “A child of Pluto. You remember your past.” 

"Yes,” Hazel said. “And you're alive.” 

Nico studied her like he was reading a menu, deciding whether or not 
to order. 

“I'm Nico di Angelo,” he said. “I came looking for my sister. Death has 
gone missing, so I thought... I thought I could bring her back and no one 
would notice.” 

“Back to life?” Hazel asked. “Is that possible?” 

“It should have been.” Nico sighed. “But she's gone. She chose to be 
reborn into a new life. I'm too late.” 

“I'm sorry.” 

He held out his hand. “You're my sister too. You deserve another 
chance. Come with me.” 




XXX 



HAZEL 



“Hazel” Percy was shaking her shoulder. “Wake up. We’ve reached 
Seattle.” 

She sat up groggily, squinting in the morning sunlight. “Frank?” 

Frank groaned, rubbing his eyes. “Did we just. ..was I just — ?” 

“You both passed out,” Percy said. “I don’t know why, but Ella told me 
not to worry about it. She said you were. ..sharing?” 

“Sharing,” Ella agreed. She crouched in the stern, preening her wing 
feathers with her teeth, which didn’t look like a very effective form of 
personal hygiene. She spit out some red fluff. “Sharing is good. No more 
blackouts. Biggest American blackout, August 14, 2003. Hazel shared. No 
more blackouts.” Percy scratched his head. “Yeah. ..we’ve been having 
conversations like that all night. I still don’t know what she’stalking about.” 
Hazel pressed her hand against her coat pocket. She could feel the 
piece of firewood, wrapped in cloth. 

She looked at Frank. ‘You were there.” 

He nodded. He didn’t say anything, but his expression was clear: He’d 
meant what he said. He wanted her to keep the piece of tinder safe. She 
wasn’t sure whether she felt honored or scared. No one had ever trusted 
her with something so important. 

“Wait,” Percy said. “You mean you guys shared a blackout? Are you 
guys both going to pass out from now on?” 

“Nope,” Ella said. “Nope, nope, nope. No more blackouts. More books 
for Ella. Books in Seattle.” 



Hazel gazed over the water. They were sailing through a large bay, 
making their way toward a cluster of downtown buildings. Neighborhoods 
rolled across a series of hills. From the tallest one rose an odd white tower 
with a saucer on the top, like a spaceship from the old Flash Gordon 
movies Sammy used to love. 

No more blackouts? Hazel thought. After enduring them for so long, 
the idea seemed too good to be true. 

How could Ella be sure they were gone? Yet Hazel did feel different . .. 
more grounded, as if she wasn’t trying to live in two time periods anymore. 
Every muscle in her body began to relax. She felt as if she'd finally slipped 
out of a lead jacket she’d been wearing for months. Somehow, having 
Frank with her during the blackout had helped. She'd relived her entire 
past, right through to the present. No wall she had to worry about was the 
future — assuming shehadone. 

Percy steered the boat toward the downtown docks. As they got 
closer, Ella scratched nervously at her nest of books. 

Hazel started to feel edgy, too. She wasn’t sure why. It was a bright, 
sunny day, and Seattle looked like a beautiful place, with inlets and 
bridges, wooded islands dotting the bay, and snowcapped mountains 
rising in the distance. Still, she felt as if she were being watched. 

“Urn... why are we stopping here?” she asked. 

Percy showed them the silver ring on his necklace. “Reyna has a sister 
here. She asked me to find her and show her this.” 

“Reyna has a s/sfer?” Frank asked, like the idea terrified him. 

Percy nodded. “Apparently Reyna thinks her sister could send help for 
the camp.” 

“Amazons,” Ella muttered. “Amazon country. Hmm. Ella will find 
libraries instead. Doesn't like Amazons. Fierce. Shields. Swords. Pointy. 
Ouch.” 

Frank reached for his spear. "Amazons? Like... female warriors?” 

“That would make sense,” Hazel said. “If Reyna’s sister is also a 
daughter of Bellona, I can see why she’d join the Amazons. But. ..is it safe 
for us to be here?” 

"Nope, nope, nope,” Ella said. "Get books instead. No Amazons.” 




“We have to try,” Percy said. "I promised Reyna. Besides, the Pax isn't 
doing too great. I've been pushing it pretty hard.” 

Hazel looked down at her feet. Water was leaking between the 
floorboards. “Oh.” 

“Yeah,” Percy agreed. “We’ll either need to fix it or find a new boat. I’m 
pretty much holding it together with my willpower at this point. Ella, do you 
have any idea where we can find the Amazons?” 

“And, urn,” Frank said nervously, “they don’t, like, kill men on sight, do 
they?” 

Ella glanced at the downtown docks, only a few hundred yards away. 
“Ella will find friends later. Ella will fly away now.” 

And she did. 

“Well...” Frank picked a single red feather out of the air. “That's 
encouraging.” 

They docked at the wharf. They barely had time to unload their 
supplies before the Pax shuddered and broke into pieces. Most of it sank, 
leaving only a board with a painted eye and another with the letter P 
bobbing in the waves. 

“Guess we're not fixing it,” Hazel said. “What now?” 

Percy stared at the steep hills of downtown Seattle. “We hope the 
Amazons will help.” 

They explored for hours. They found some great salty caramel chocolate at 
a candy store. They bought some coffee so strong, Hazel’s head felt like a 
vibrating gong. They stopped at a sidewalk cafe and had some excellent 
grilled salmon sandwiches. 

Once they saw Ella zooming between high-rise towers, a large book 
clutched in each foot. But they found no Amazons. All the while, Hazel was 
aware of the time ticking by. June 22 now, and Alaska was still a long way 
away. 

Finally they wandered south of downtown, into a plaza surrounded by 
smaller glass and brick buildings. Hazel's nerves started tingling. She 
looked around, sure she was being watched. 

“There,” she said. 




The office building on their left had a single word etched on the glass 
doors: awon. 

“Oh,” Frank said. “Uh, no, Hazel. That’s a modern thing. They're a 
company, right? They sell stuff on the Internet. They’re not actually 
Amazons.” 

“Unless...” Percy walked through the doors. Hazel had a bad feeling 
about this place, but she and Frank followed. 

The lobby was like an empty fish tank — glass walls, a glossy black 
floor, a few token plants, and pretty much nothing else. Against the back 
wall, a black stone staircase led up and down. In the middle of the room 
stood a young woman in a black pantsuit, with long auburn hair and a 
security guard’s earpiece. Her name tag said kinzie. Her smile was 
friendly enough, but her eyes reminded Hazel of the policemen in New 
Orleans who used to patrol the French Quarter at night. They always 
seemed to look through you, as if they were thinking about who might 
attack them next. 

Kinzie nodded at Hazel, ignoring the boys. “May I help you?” 

“Urn.. .1 hope so,” Hazel said. “We're looking for Amazons.” 

Kinzie glanced at Hazel’s sword, then Frank’s spear, though neither 
should have been visible through the Mist. 

“This is the main campus for Amazon,” she said cautiously. “Did you 
have an appointment with someone, or — ” 

“Hylla,” Percy interrupted. “We're looking for a girl named — ” 

Kinzie moved so fast, Hazel’s eyes almost couldn’t follow. She kicked 
Frank in the chest and sent him flying backward across the lobby. She 
pulled a sword out of thin air, swept Percy off his feet with the flat of the 
blade, and pressed the point under his chin. 

Too late, Hazel reached for her sword. A dozen more girls in black 
flooded up the staircase, swords in hand, and surrounded her. 

Kinzie glared down at Percy. “First rule: Males don't speak without 
permission. Second rule, trespassing on our territory is punishable by 
death. You’ll meet Queen Hylla, all right. She’ll be the one deciding your 
fate.” 




The Amazons confiscated the trio’s weapons and marchedthem down so 
many flights of stairs, Hazel lost count. 

Finally they emerged in a cavern so big it could have accommodated 
ten high schools, sports fields and all. Stark fluorescent lights glowed along 
the rock ceiling. Conveyor belts wound through the room like water slides, 
carrying boxes in every direction. Aisles of metal shelves stretched out 
forever, stacked high with crates of merchandise. Cranes hummed and 
robotic arms whirred, folding cardboard boxes, packing shipments, and 
taking things on and off the belts. Some of the shelves were so tall they 
were only accessible by ladders and catwalks, which ran across the ceiling 
like theaters scaffolding. 

Hazel remembered newsreels she’d seen as a child. She'd always 
been impressed by the scenes of factories building planes and guns for 
the war effort — hundreds and hundreds of weapons coming off the line 
every day. But that was nothing compared to this, and almost all the work 
was being done by computers and robots. The only humans Hazel could 
see were some black-suited security women patrolling the catwalks, and 
some men in orange jumpsuits, like prison uniforms, driving forklifts 
through the aisles, delivering more pallets of boxes. The men wore iron 
collars around their necks. 

"You keep slaves ?” Hazel knew it might be dangerous to speak, but 
she was so outraged she couldn't stop herself. 

“The men?” Kinzie snorted. “They’re not slaves. They just know their 
place. Now, move.” 

They walked so far, Hazel's feet began to hurt. She thought they must 
surely be getting to the end of the warehouse when Kinzie opened a large 
set of double doors and led them into another cavern, just as big as the 
first. 

“The Underworld isn’t this big,” Hazel complained, which probably 
wasn't true, but it felt that way to her feet. 

Kinzie smiled smugly. “You admire our base of operations?Yes, our 
distribution system is worldwide. It took many years and most of our fortune 
to build. Now, finally, we're turning a profit. The mortals don’t realize they 
are funding the Amazon kingdom. Soon, we’ll be richer than any mortal 
nation. Then — when the weak mortals depend on us for everything — the 




revolution will begin!” 

“What are you going to do?” Frank grumbled. “Cancel free shipping?” 

A guard slammed the hilt of her sword into his gut. Percy tried to help 
him, but two more guards pushed him back at sword point. 

“You'll learn respect,” Kinzie said. “It’s males like you who have ruined 
the mortal world. The only harmonious society is one run by women. We 
are stronger, wiser — ” 

“More humble,” Percy said. The guards tried to hit him, but Percy 
ducked. “Stop it!” Hazel said. Surprisingly, the guards listened. “Hylla is 
going to judge us, right?" Hazel asked. “So take us to her. We’re wasting 
time.” Kinzie nodded. “Perhaps you’re right. We have more important 
problems. And time. ..time is definitely an issue.”“What do you mean?” 
Hazel asked. A guard grunted. “We could take them straight to Otrera. 

Might win her favor that way.”“No!” Kinzie snarled. “I’d sooner wear an 
iron collar and drive a forklift. Hylla is queen.”“Until tonight," another guard 
muttered. Kinzie gripped her sword. Fora second Hazel thought the 

Amazons might start fighting one another, but Kinzie seemed to get 
her anger under control. “Enough,” she said. “Let’s go.” They crossed a 
lane of forklift traffic, navigated a maze of conveyor belts, and ducked 
under a row of robotic arms that were packing up boxes. 

Most of the merchandise looked pretty ordinary: books, electronics, 
baby diapers. But against one wall sat a war chariot with a big bar code on 
the side. Hanging from the yoke was a sign that read: only one left in 

STOCK. ORDER SOON! (MORE ON THE WAY) 

Finally they entered a smaller cavern that looked like a combination 
loading zone and throne room. The walls were lined with metal shelves six 
stories high, decorated with war banners, painted shields, and the stuffed 
heads of dragons, hydras, giant lions, and wild boars. Standing guard 
along either side were dozens of forklifts modified for war. An iron-collared 
male drove each machine, but an Amazon warrior stood on a platform in 
back, manning a giant mounted crossbow. The prongs of each forklift had 
been sharpened into oversized sword blades. 

The shelves in this room were stacked with cages containing live 
animals. Hazel couldn't believe what she was seeing — black mastiffs, giant 
eagles, a lion-eagle hybrid that must’ve been a gryphon, and a red ant the 




size of a compact car. 

She watched in horror as a forklift zipped into the room, picked up a 
cage with a beautiful white pegasus, and sped away while the horse 
whinnied in protest. 

“What are you doing to that poor animal?” Hazel demanded. 

Kinzie frowned. "The pegasus? It’ll be fine. Someone must’ve ordered 
it. The shipping and handling charges are steep, but — ” 

“You can buy a pegasus online?” Percy asked. 

Kinzie glared at him. "Obviously you can’t, male. But Amazons can. 
We have followers all over the world. They need supplies. This way.” 

At the end of the warehouse was a dais constructed from pallets of 
books: stacks of vampire novels, walls of James Patterson thrillers, and a 
throne made from about a thousand copies of something called The Five 
Habits of Highly Aggressive Women. 

At the base of the steps, several Amazons in camouflage were having 
a heated argument while a young woman — Queen Hylla, Hazel assumed — 
watched and listened from her throne. 

Hylla was in her twenties, lithe and lean as a tiger. She wore a black 
leather jumpsuit and black boots. She had no crown, but around her waist 
was a strange belt made of interlocking gold links, like the pattern of a 
labyrinth. Hazel couldn't believe how much she looked like Reyna — a little 
older, perhaps, but with the same long black hair, the same dark eyes, and 
the same hard expression, like she was trying to decide which of the 
Amazons before her most deserved death. 

Kinzie took one look at the argument and grunted with distaste. 
“Otrera's agents, spreading their lies.” 

"What?” Frank asked. 

Then Hazel stopped so abruptly, the guards behind her stumbled. A 
few feet from the queen’s throne, two Amazons guarded a cage. Inside 
was a beautiful horse — not the winged kind, but a majestic and powerful 
stallion with a honey-colored coat and a black mane. His fierce brown eyes 
regarded Hazel, and she could swear he looked impatient, as if thinking: 
About time you got here. 

“It’s him,” Hazel murmured. 




“Him, who?” Percy asked. 

Kinzie scowled in annoyance, but when she saw where Hazel was 
looking, her expression softened. “Ah, yes. Beautiful, isn't he?” 

Hazel blinked to make sure she wasn’t hallucinating. It was the same 
horse she’d chased in Alaska. She was sure of it.. .but that was 
impossible. No horse could live that long. 

"Is he...” Hazel could hardly control her voice. "Is he for sale?” 

The guards all laughed. 

“That's Arion,” Kinzie said patiently, as if she understood Hazel's 
fascination. “He’s a royal treasure of the Amazons — to be claimed only by 
our most courageous warrior, if you believe the prophecy.” 

“Prophecy?” Hazel asked. 

Kinzie's expression became pained, almost embarrassed. "Never 
mind. But no, he's not for sale.” 

“Then why is he in a cage?” 

Kinzie grimaced. “Because. ..he is difficult.” 

Right on cue, the horse slammed his head against the cage door. The 
metal bars shuddered, and the guards retreated nervously. 

Hazel wanted to free that horse. She wanted it more than anything she 
had ever wanted before. But Percy, Frank, and a dozen Amazon guards 
were staring at her, so she tried to mask her emotions. “Just asking,” she 
managed. “Let’s see the queen.” 

The argument at the front of the room grew louder. Finally the queen 
noticed Hazel's group approaching, and she snapped, “Enough!” 

The arguing Amazons shut up immediately. The queen waved them 
aside and beckoned Kinzie forward. 

Kinzie shoved Hazel and her friends toward the throne. “My queen, 
these demigods — ” 

The queen shot to her feet. “You!” 

She glared at Percy Jackson with murderous rage. 

Percy muttered something in Ancient Greek that Hazel was pretty sure 
the nuns at St. Agnes wouldn't have liked. 

“Clipboard,” he said. “Spa. Pirates.” 




This made no sense to Hazel, but the queen nodded. She stepped 
down from her dais of best sellers and drew a dagger from her belt. 

"You were incredibly foolish to come here,” she said. “You destroyed 
my home. You made my sister and me exiles and prisoners.” 

“Percy,” Frank said uneasily. “What's the scary woman with the dagger 
talking about?” 

“Circe's Island,” Percy said. “I just remembered. The gorgon’s blood — 
maybe it’s starting to heal my mind. TheSea of Monsters. Hylla...she 
welcomed us at the docks, took us to see her boss. Hylla worked for the 
sorceress.” 

Hylla bared her perfect white teeth. “Are you telling me you’ve had 
amnesia? You know, I might actually believe you. 

Why else would you be stupid enough to come here?” 

“We've come in peace,” Hazel insisted. “What did Percy do?” 
"Peace?” The queen raised her eyebrows at Hazel. “What did he do? 
This male destroyed Circe's school of magic!” 

“Circe turned me into a guinea pig!” Percy protested. 

“No excuses!” Hylla said. “Circe was a wise and generous employer. I 
had room and board, a good health plan, dental, pet leopards, free potions 
— everything! And this demigod with his friend, the blonde — ” 

“Annabeth.” Percy tapped his forehead like he wanted the memories 
to come back faster. “That's right. I was there with Annabeth.” 

“You released our captives — Blackbeard and his pirates.” She turned 
to Hazel. “Have you ever been kidnapped by pirates? It isn’t fun. They 
burned our spa to the ground. My sister and I were their prisoners for 
months. Fortunately we were daughters of Bellona. We learned to fight 
quickly. If we hadn’t...” She shuddered. “Well, the pirates learned torespect 
us. Eventually we made our way to California where we — ” She hesitated 
as if the memory was painful. “Where my sister and I parted ways.” 

She stepped toward Percy until they were nose-to-nose. She ran her 
dagger under his chin. “Of course, I survived and prospered. I have risen to 
be queen of the Amazons. So perhaps I should thank you.” 

"You're welcome,” Percy said. 

The queen dug her knife in a little deeper. "Never mind. I think I'll kill 




you.” 

“Wait!” Hazel yelped. “Reyna sent us! Your sister! Look at the ring on 
his necklace.” 

Hylla frowned. She lowered her knife to Percy’s necklace until the point 
rested on the silver ring. The color drained from her face. 

“Explain this.” She glared at Hazel. “Quickly.” 

Hazel tried. She described Camp Jupiter. She told the Amazons 
about Reyna being their praetor, and the army of monsters that was 
marching south. She told them about their quest to free Thanatos in 
Alaska. 

As Hazel talked, another group of Amazons entered the room. One 
was taller and older than the rest, with plaited silver hair and fine silk robes 
like a Roman matron. The other Amazons made way for her, treating her 
with such respect that Hazel wondered if she was Hylla’s mother — until she 
noticed how Hylla and the older woman stared daggers at each other. 

“So we need your help,” Hazel finished her story. “Reyna needs your 
help.” 

Hylla gripped Percy’s leather cord and yanked it off his neck — beads, 
ring, probatio tablet and all. “Reyna... that foolish girl — ” 

“Well!” the older woman interrupted. “Romans need our help?” She 
laughed, and the Amazons around her joined in. 

“How many times did we battle the Romans in my day?” the woman 
asked. “How many times have they killed our sisters in battle? When I was 
queen — ” 

“Otrera,” Hylla interrupted, “you are here as a guest. You are not queen 
anymore.” 

The older woman spread her hands and made a mocking bow. “As 
you say — at least, until tonight. But I speak the truth, Queen Hylla.” She 
said the word like a taunt. “I’ve been brought back by the Earth Mother 
herself! I bring tidings of a new war. Why should Amazons follow Jupiter, 
that foolish king of Olympus, when we can follow a queen ? When I take 
command — ” 

“If you take command,” Hylla said. “But for now, I am queen. My word 
is law.” 




“I see.” Otrera looked at the assembled Amazons, who were standing 
very still, as if they'd found themselves in a pit with two wild tigers. “Have 
we become so weak that we listen to male demigods? Will you spare the 
life of this son of Neptune, even though he once destroyed your home? 
Perhaps you'll let him destroy your newhome, too!” 

Hazel held her breath. The Amazons looked back and forth between 
Hylla and Otrera, watching for any sign of weakness. 

“I will pass judgment,” Hylla said in an icy tone, “once I have all the 
facts. That is how / rule — by reason, not fear. First, I will talk with this one.” 
She jabbed a finger toward Hazel. “It is my duty to hear out a female 
warrior before I sentence her or her allies to death. That is the Amazon 
way. Or have your years in the Underworld muddled your memory, Otrera?” 

The older woman sneered, but she didn't try to argue. 

Hylla turned to Kinzie. “Take these males to the holding cells. The rest 
of you, leave us.” 

Otrera raised her hand to the crowd. “As our queen commands. But 
any of you who would like to hear more about Gaea, and our glorious future 
with her, come with me!” 

About half the Amazons followed her out of the room. Kinzie snorted 
with disgust, then she and her guards hauled Percy and Frank away. 

Soon Hylla and Hazel were alone except for the queen’s personal 
guards. At Hylla's signal, even they moved out of earshot. 

The queen turned toward Hazel. Her anger dissolved, and Hazel saw 
desperation in her eyes. The queen looked like one of her caged animals 
being whisked off on a conveyor belt. 

“We must talk,” Hylla said. “We don’t have much time. By midnight, I 
will most likely be dead.” 




XXXI 



HAZEL 



Hazel considered making a run for it. 

She didn’t trust Queen Hylla, and she certainly didn’t trust that other 
lady, Otrera. Only three guards were left in the room. All of them kept their 
distance. 

Hylla was armed with just a dagger. This deep underground, Hazel 
might be able to cause an earthquake in the throne room, or summon a big 
pile of schist or gold, if she could cause a distraction, she might be able to 
escape and find her friends. 

Unfortunately, she'd seen the Amazons fight. Even though the queen 
had only a dagger, Hazel suspected she could use it pretty well. And Hazel 
was unarmed. They hadn’t searched her, which meant thankfully they hadn’t 
taken Frank’s firewood from her coat pocket, but her sword was gone. 

The queen seemed to be reading her thoughts. “Forget about escape. 
Of course, we’d respect you for trying. But we’d have to kill you.” 

“Thanks for the warning.” 

Hylla shrugged. “The least I can do. I believe you come in peace. I 
believe Reyna sent you.” 

“But you won’t help?” 

The queen studied the necklace she’d taken from Percy. “It’s 
complicated,” she said. “Amazons have always had a rocky relationship 
with other demigods — especially male demigods. We fought for King 
Priam in the Trojan War, but Achilles killed our queen, Penthesilea. Years 
before that, Hercules stole Queen Hippolyta’s belt — this belt I’m wearing. It 
took us centuries to recover it. Long before that, at the very beginning of 



the Amazon nation, a hero named Bellerophon killed our first queen, 
Otrera.” 

“You mean the lady — ” 

“ — who just left, yes. Otrera, our first queen, daughter of Ares.” 

“Mars?” 

Hylla made a sour face. “No, definitely Ares. Otrera lived long before 
Rome, in a time when all demigods were Greek. Unfortunately, some of 
our warriors still prefer the old ways. Children of Ares... they are always the 
worst.” 

“The old ways...” Hazel had heard rumors about Greek demigods. 
Octavian believed they existed and were secretly plotting against Rome. 
But she'd never really believed it, even when Percy came to camp. He just 
didn't strike her as an evil, scheming Greek. “You mean the Amazons are a 
mix. . . Greekand Roman?” 

Hylla continued to examine the necklace — the clay beads, the probatio 
tablet. She slipped Reyna’s silver ring off the cord and put it on her own 
finger. “I suppose they don't teach you about that at Camp Jupiter. The 
gods have many aspects. Mars, Ares. Pluto, Hades. Being immortal, they 
tend to accumulate personalities. They are Greek, Roman, American — a 
combination of all the cultures they've influenced over the eons. Do you 
understand?” 

“I — I'm not sure. Are all Amazons demigods?” 

The queen spread her hands. “We all have some immortal blood, but 
many of my warriors are descended from demigods. Some have been 
Amazons for countless generations. Others are children of minor gods. 
Kinzie, the one who brought you here, is the daughter of a nymph. Ah — 
here she is now.” 

The girl with the auburn hair approached the queen and bowed. 

"The prisoners are safely locked away,” Kinzie reported. "But...” 

"Yes?” the queen asked. 

Kinzie swallowed like she had a bad taste in her mouth. “Otrera made 
sure herfollowers are guarding the cells. I'm sorry, my queen.” 

Hylla pursed her lips. “No matter. Stay with us, Kinzie. We were just 
talking about our, ah, situation.” 




“Otrera,” Hazel guessed. “Gaea brought her back from the dead to 
throw you Amazons into civil war.” 

The queen exhaled. “If that was her plan, it is working. Otrera is a 
legend among our people. She plans to take back the throne and lead us 
to war against the Romans. Many of my sisters will follow her.” 

“Not all,” Kinzie grumbled. 

"But Otrera is a spirit!” Hazel said. “She isn't even — ” 

“Real?” The queen studied Hazel carefully. “I worked with the 
sorceress Circe for many years. I know a returned soul when I see one. 
When did you die, Hazel — Nineteen twenty? Nineteen thirty?” 

"Nineteen forty-two,” Hazel said. “But — but I wasn’t sent by Gaea. I 
came back to stop her. This is my second chance.” 

“Your second chance...” Hylla gazed at the rows of battle forklifts, now 
empty. “I know about second chances. That boy, 

Percy Jackson — he destroyed my old life. You wouldn’t have 
recognized me back then. I wore dresses and makeup. I was a glorified 
secretary, an accursed Barbie doll.” 

Kinzie made a three-fingered claw over her heart, like the voodoo 
gestures Hazel's mom once used forwarding off the Evil Eye. 

“Circe's island was a safe place for Reyna and me,” the queen 
continued. “We were daughters of the war goddess, Bellona. I wanted to 
protect Reyna from all that violence. Then Percy Jackson unleashed the 
pirates. They kidnapped us, and Reyna and I learned to be tough. We 
found out that we were good with weapons. The past four years, I've 
wanted to kill Percy Jackson for what he made us endure.” 

“But Reyna became the praetor of Camp Jupiter," Hazel said. “You 
became the queen of the Amazons. Maybe this was your destiny.” 

Hylla fingered the necklace in her hand. “I may not be queen for much 
longer.” 

“You will prevail!” Kinzie insisted. 

“As the Fates decree,” Hylla said without enthusiasm. 

“You see, Hazel, Otrera has challenged me to a duel. Every Amazon 
has that right. Tonight at midnight, we'll battle for the throne.” 




"But. ..you're good, right?” Hazel asked. 

Hylla managed a dry smile. “Good, yes, but Otrera is the founder of the 
Amazons.” 

“She's a lot older. Maybe she’s out of practice, having been dead for 
so long.” 

"I hope you're right, Hazel. You see, it’s a battle to the death....” 

She waited for that to sink in. Hazel remembered what Phineas had 
said in Portland — how he had had a shortcut back from death, thanks to 
Gaea. She remembered how the gorgons had tried to re-form in the Tiber. 

“Even if you kill her,” Hazel said, “she’ll just come back. As long as 
Thanatos is chained, she won’t stay dead.” 

“Exactly,” Hylla said. “Otrera has already told us that she can’t die. So 
even if I manage to defeat her tonight, she'll simply return and challenge 
me again tomorrow. There is no law against challenging the queen multiple 
times. She can insist on fighting me every night, until she finally wears me 
down. I can't win.” 

Hazel gazed at the throne. She imagined Otrera sitting there with her 
fine robes and her silver hair, ordering herwarriors to attack Rome. She 
imagined the voice of Gaeafilling this cavern. 

"There has to be a way,” she said. “Don't Amazons have. ..special 
powers or something?” 

“No more than other demigods,” Hylla said. “We can die, just like any 
mortal. There is a group of archers who follow the goddess Artemis. They 
are often mistaken for Amazons, but the Hunters forsake the company of 
men in exchange for almost endless life. We Amazons — we would prefer 
to live life to the fullest. We love, we fight, we die.” 

“I thought you hated men.” 

Hylla and Kinzie both laughed. 

“Hate men?” said the queen. "No, no, we like men. We just like to 
show them who’s in charge. But that’s beside the point. If I could, I would 
rally our troops and ride to my sister's aid. Unfortunately, my power is 
tenuous. When I am killed in combat — and it’s only a matter of time — 
Otrera will be queen. She will march to Camp Jupiter with our forces, but 
she will not go to help my sister. She'll go to join the giant’s army.” 




“We've got to stop her,” Hazel said. “My friends and I killed Phineas, 
one of Gaea's other servants in Portland. Maybe we can help!” 

The queen shook her head. “You can’t interfere. As queen, I must fight 
my own battles. Besides, your friends are imprisoned. If I let them go, I'll 
look weak. Either / execute you three as trespassers, or Otrera will do so 
when she becomes queen.” 

Hazel's heart sank. “So I guess we’re both dead. Me for the second 
time.” 

In the comer cage, the stallion Arion whinnied angrily. He reared and 
slammed his hooves against the bars. 

“The horse seems to feel your despair,” the queen said. "Interesting. 
He's immortal, you know — the son of Neptune and Ceres.” 

Hazel blinked. "Two gods had a horse for a kid?” 

"Long story.” 

“Oh.” Hazel's face felt hot with embarrassment. 

“He's the fastest horse in the world,” Hylla said. “Pegasus is more 
famous, with his wings, but Arion runs like the wind over land and sea. No 
creature is faster. It took us years to capture him — one of our greatest 
prizes. But it did us no good. The horse will not allow anyone to ride him. I 
think he hates Amazons. And he is expensive to keep. He will eat anything, 
but he prefers gold.” 

The back of Hazel's neck tingled. “He eats gold?” 

She remembered the horse following her in Alaska so many years 
ago. She had thought he was eating nuggets of gold that appeared in her 
footsteps. 

She knelt and pressed her hand against the floor. Immediately, the 
stone cracked. A chunk of gold ore the size of a plum was pushed out of 
the earth. Hazel stood, examining her prize. 

Hylla and Kinzie stared at her. 

“How did you...?” The queen gasped. “Hazel, be careful!” 

Hazel approached the stallion's cage. She put her hand between the 
bars, and Arion gingerly ate the chunk of gold from her palm. 

“Unbelievable,” Kinzie said. "The last girl who tried that — ” 




“Now has a metal arm," the queen finished. She studied Hazel with 
new interest, as if deciding whether or not to say more. “Hazel... we spent 
years hunting for this horse. It was foretold that the most courageous 
female warrior would someday master Arion and ride him to victory, 
ushering in a new era of prosperity for the Amazons. Yet no Amazon can 
touch him, much less control him. Even Otrera tried and failed. Two others 
died attempting to ride him.” 

That probably should've worried Hazel, but she couldn't imagine this 
beautiful horse hurting her. She put her hand through the bars again and 
stroked Arion's nose. He nuzzled her arm, murmuring contentedly, as if 
asking, More gold? Yum. 

“I would feed you more, Arion." Hazel glanced pointedly at the queen. 
“But I think I'm scheduled for an execution.” 

Queen Hylla looked from Hazel to the horse and back again. 
"Unbelievable.” 

“The prophecy,” Kinzie said. “Is it possible...?” 

Hazel could almost see the gears turning inside the queen’s head, 
formulating a plan. “You have courage, Hazel Levesque. And it seems 
Arion has chosen you. Kinzie?” 

"Yes, my queen?” 

"You said Otrera's followers are guarding the cells?” 

Kinzie nodded. “I should have foreseen that. I'm sorry — ” 

“No, it’s fine.” The queen's eyes gleamed — the way Hannibal the 
elephant's did whenever he was unleashed to destroy a fortress. “It would 
be embarrassing for Otrera if her followers failed in their duties — if, for 
instance, they were overcome by an outsider and a prison break 
occurred.” 

Kinzie began to smile. “Yes, my queen. Most embarrassing.” 

“Of course,” Hylla continued, “none of my guards would know a thing 
about this. Kinzie would not spread the word to allow an escape.” 

“Certainly not,” Kinzie agreed. 

"And we couldn’t help you.” The queen raised her eyebrows at Hazel. 
“But if you somehow overpowered the guards and freed your friends. ..if, 
for instance, you took one of the guards' Amazon cards — ” 




“With one-click purchasing enabled,” Kinzie said, “which will open the 
jail cells with one click.” 

“If — gods forbid! — something like that were to happen,” the queen 
continued, “you would find your friends’ weapons and supplies in the guard 
station next to the cells. And who knows? If you made your way back to this 
throne room while I was off preparing for my duel... well, as I mentioned, 
Arionis a very fast horse. It would be a shame if he were stolen and used 
for an escape.” 

Hazel felt like she'd been plugged into a wall socket. Electricity surged 
through her whole body. Arion. . .Arion could be hers. All she had to do was 
rescue her friends and fight her way through an entire nation of highly 
trained warriors. “Queen Hylla,” she said, “I — I'm not much of a fighter.” 

“Oh, there are many kinds of fighting, Hazel. I have a feeling you're 
quite resourceful. And if the prophecy is correct, you will help the Amazon 
nation achieve prosperity. If you succeed on your quest to free Thanatos, 
for instance — ” 

“ — then Otrera wouldn't come back if she were killed,” 

Hazel said. “You'd only have to defeat her. ..urn, every night until we 
succeed.” 

The queen nodded grimly. “It seems we both have impossible tasks 
ahead of us.” 

“But you’re trusting me,” said Hazel. “And I trust you. You wll win, as 
many times as it takes.” 

Hylla held out Percy’s necklace and poured it into Hazel's hands. 

"I hope you're right,” the queen said. "But the sooner you succeed the 
better, yes?” 

Hazel slipped the necklace into her pocket. She shook the queen's 
hand, wondering if it was possible to make a friend so fast — especially 
one who was about to send her to jail. 

“This conversation never happened,” Hylla told Kinzie. “Take our 
prisoner to the cells and hand her over to Otrera’s guards. And, Kinzie, be 
sure you leave before anything unfortunate happens. I don’t want my loyal 
followers held accountable for a prison break.” 

The queen smiled mischievously, and for the first time, Hazel felt 




jealous of Reyna. She wished that she had a sister like this. 

“Good-bye, Hazel Levesque,” the queen said. “If we both die tonight... 
well, I’m glad I met you.” 




XXXII 



HAZEL 



The amazon jail was at the top of a storage aisle, sixty feet in the air. 

Kinzie led her up three different ladders to a metal catwalk, then tied 
Hazel’s hands loosely behind her back and pushed her along past crates 
of jewelry. 

A hundred feet ahead, under the harsh glow of fluorescent lights, a row 
of chain-link cages hung suspended from cables. Percy and Frank were in 
two of the cages, talking to each other in hushed tones. Next to them on the 
catwalk, three bored-looking Amazon guards leaned against their spears 
and gazed at little black tablets in their hands like they were reading. 

Hazel thought the tablets looked too thin for books. Then it occurred to 
her they might be some sort of tiny — what did modern people call them? — 
laptop computers. SecretAmazon technology, perhaps. Hazel found the 
idea almost as unsettling as the battle forklifts downstairs. 

“Get moving, girl," Kinzie ordered, loud enough for the guards to hear. 
She prodded Hazel in the back with her sword. 

Hazel walked as slowly as she could, but her mind was racing. She 
needed to come up with a brilliant rescue plan. So far she had nothing. 
Kinzie had made sure she could break her bonds easily, but she'd still be 
empty-handed against three trained warriors, and she had to act before 
they put her in a cage. 

She passed a pallet of crates marked 24 -carat blue topaz rings, then 
another labeled silver friendship bracelets. An electronic display next to 
the friendship bracelets read People \Mio bought this item also bought 
GARDEN GNOMESOLAR PATIO LIGHT and FLAMING SPEAR OF 



DEATH. Buy all three and save 12%! 

Hazel froze. Gods of Olympus, she was stupid. 

Silver. Topaz. She sent out her senses, searching for precious metals, 
and her brain almost exploded from the feedback. She was standing next 
to a six-story-tall mountain of jewelry. But in front of her, from here to the 
guards, was nothing but prison cages. 

“What is it?” Kinzie hissed. “Keep moving! They'll get suspicious.” 
“Make them come here,” Hazel muttered over her shoulder. 

“Why—” 

“Please.” 

The guards frowned in their direction. 

“What are you staring at?” Kinzie yelled at them. “Here's the third 
prisoner. Come get her.” 

The nearest guard set down her reading tablet. “Why can’t you walk 
another thirty paces, Kinzie?” 

“Urn, because — ” 

“Ooof!” Hazel fell to her knees and tried to put on her best seasick 
face. “I’m feeling nauseous! Can't. ..walk. Amazons ... too ... scary.” 

"There you go,” Kinzie told the guards. “Now, are you going to come 
take the prisoner, or should I tell Queen Hylla you're not doing your duty?” 
The nearest guard rolled her eyes and trudged over. Hazel had hoped 
the other two guards would come too, but she'd have to worry about that 
later. 

The first guard grabbed Hazel’s arm. “Fine. I'll take custody of the 
prisoner. But if I were you, Kinzie, I wouldn’t worry about Hylla. She won't 
be queen much longer.” 

“We'll see, Doris.” Kinzie turned to leave. Hazel waited until her steps 
receded down the catwalk. 

The guard Doris pulled on Hazel's arm. “Well? Come on.” 

Hazel concentrated on the wall of jewelry next to her:forty large boxes 
of silver bracelets. “Not. ..feeling so good.” 

"You are not throwing up on me,” Doris growled. She tried to yank 
Hazel to her feet, but Hazel went limp, like a kid throwing a fit in a store. 




Next to her, the boxes began to tremble. 

“Lulu!” Doris yelled to one of her comrades. “Help me with this lame 
little girl.” 

Amazons named Doris and Lulu? Hazel thought. Okay ... 

The second guard jogged over. Hazel figured this was her best 
chance. Before they could haul her to her feet, she yelled, “Ooooh!” and 
flattened herself against the catwalk. 

Doris started to say, “Oh, give me a — ” 

The entire pallet of jewelry exploded with a sound like a thousand slot 
machines hitting the jackpot. A tidal wave of silver friendship bracelets 
poured across the catwalk, washing Doris and Lulu right over the railing. 

They would've fallen to their deaths, but Hazel wasn't that mean. She 
summoned a few hundred bracelets, which leaped at the guards and 
lashed around their ankles, leaving them hanging upside down from the 
bottom of the catwalk, screaming like lame little girls. 

Hazel turned toward the third guard. She broke her bonds, which were 
about as sturdy as toilet paper. She picked up one of the fallen guards' 
spears. She was terrible with spears, but she hoped the third Amazon 
didn't know that. 

“Should I kill you from here?” Hazel snarled. “Or are you going to make 
me come over there?” 

The guard turned and ran. 

Hazel shouted over the side to Doris and Lulu. “Amazon cards! Pass 
them up, unless you want me to undo those friendship bracelets and let you 
drop!” 

Four and a half seconds later, Hazel had two Amazon cards. She 
raced over to the cages and swiped a card. The doors popped open. 

Frank stared at her in astonishment. “Hazel, that was... amazing." 

Percy nodded. “I will never wear jewelry again.” 

“Except this.” Hazel tossed him his necklace. “Our weapons and 
supplies are at the end of the catwalk. We should hurry. Pretty soon — ” 

Alarms began wailing throughout the cavern. 

"Yeah,” she said, “that’ll happen. Let’s go!” 




The first part of the escape was easy. They retrieved their things with no 
problem, then started climbing down the ladder. Every time Amazons 
swarmed beneath them, demanding their surrender, Hazel made a crate of 
jewelry explode, burying their enemies in a Niagara Falls of gold and silver. 
When they got to the bottom of the ladder, they found a scene that looked 
like Mardi Gras Armageddon — Amazons trapped up to their necks in bead 
necklaces, several more upside down in a mountain of amethyst earrings, 
and a battle forklift buried in silver charm bracelets. 

"You, Hazel Levesque,” Frank said, “are entirely freaking incredible.” 

She wanted to kiss him right there, but they had no time. They ran 
back to the throne room. 

They stumbled across one Amazon who must've been loyal to Hylla. 
As soon as she saw the escapees, she turned away like they were 
invisible. 

Percy started to ask, “What the — ” 

“Some of them went us to escape,” Hazel said. “I’ll explain later.” 

The second Amazon they met wasn’t so friendly. She was dressed in 
full armor, blocking the throne-room entrance. She spun her spear with 
lightning speed, but this time Percy was ready. He drew Riptide and 
stepped into battle. As the Amazon jabbed at him, he sidestepped, cut her 
spear shaft in half, and slammed the hilt of his sword against her helmet. 

The guard crumpled. 

“Mars Almighty,” Frank said. “How did you — that wasn’t any Roman 
technique!” 

Percy grinned. "The graecus has some moves, my friend. After you.” 

They ran into the throne room. As promised, Hylla and her guards had 
cleared out. Hazel dashed over to Arion's cage and swiped an Amazon 
card across the lock. Instantly the stallion burst forth, rearing in triumph. 

Percy and Frank stumbled backward. 

“Urn., .is that thing fame?” Frank said. 

The horse whinnied angrily. 

“I don't think so,” Percy guessed. “He just said, 7 wll trample you to 
death, silly Chinese Canadian baby man.’’ 




"You speak horse?” Hazel asked. 

‘“Baby man’?” Frank spluttered. 

“Speaking to horses is a Poseidon thing,” Percy said. “Uh, I mean a 
Neptune thing.” 

"Then you and Arion should get along fine,” Hazel said. “He’s a son of 
Neptune too.” 

Percy turned pale. “Excuse me?” 

If they hadn’t been in such a bad situation, Percy’s expression might 
have made her laugh. "The point is, he's fast. He can get us out of here.” 

Frank did not look thrilled. “Three of us can't fit on one horse, can we? 
We'll fall off, or slow him down, or — ” 

Arion whinnied again. 

“Ouch,” Percy said. “Frank, the horse says you’re a — you know, 
actually, I’m not going to translate that. Anyway, he says there's a chariot in 
the warehouse, and he's willing to pull it.” 

“There!” someone yelled from the back of the throne room. A dozen 
Amazons charged in, followed by males in orange jumpsuits. When they 
saw Arion, they backed up quickly and headed for the battle forklifts. 

Hazel vaulted onto Arion's back. 

She grinned down at her friends. “I remember seeing that chariot. 
Follow me, guys!” 

She galloped into the larger cavern and scattered a crowd of males. 
Percy knocked out an Amazon. Frank swept two more off their feet with his 
spear. Hazel could feel Arion straining to run. He wanted to go full speed, 
but he needed more room. They had to make it outside. 

Hazel bowled into a patrol of Amazons, who scattered in terror at the 
sight of the horse. For once, Hazel's spatha felt exactly the right length. 
She swung it at everyone who came within reach. No Amazon dared 
challenge her. 

Percy and Frank ran after her. Finally they reached the chariot. Arion 
stopped by the yoke, and Percy set to work with the reins and harness. 

"You've done this before?” Frank asked. 

Percy didn't need to answer. His hands flew. In no time the chariot was 




ready. He jumped aboard and yelled, "Frank, come on! Hazel, go!” 

A battle cry went up behind them. A full army of Amazons stormed into 
the warehouse. Otrera herself stood astride a battle forklift, her silver hair 
flowing as she swung her mounted crossbow toward the chariot. “Stop 
them!” she yelled. 

Hazel spurred Arion. They raced across the cavern, weaving around 
pallets and forklifts. An arrow whizzed past Hazel's head. Something 
exploded behind her, but she didn't look back. 

"The stairs!” Frank yelled. “No way this horse can pull a chariot up that 
many flights of — OH MY GODS!” 

Thankfully the stairs were wide enough for the chariot, because Arion 
didn't even slow down. He shot up the steps with the chariot rattling and 
groaning. Hazel glanced back a few times to make sure Frank and Percy 
hadn't fallen off. Their knuckles were white on the sides of the chariot, their 
teeth chattering like windup Halloween skulls. 

Finally they reached the lobby. Arion crashed through the main doors 
into the plaza and scattered a bunch of guys in business suits. 

Hazel felt the tension in Arion’s rib cage. The fresh air was making him 
crazy to run, but Hazel pulled back on his reins. 

“Ella!” Hazel shouted at the sky. “Where are you? We have to leave!” 

For a horrible second, she was afraid the harpy might be too far away 
to hear. She might be lost, or captured by the Amazons. 

Behind them a battle forklift clattered up the stairs and roared through 
the lobby, a mob of Amazons behind it. 

“Surrender!” Otrera screamed. 

The forklift raised its razor-sharp tines. 

“Ella!” Hazel cried desperately. 

In a flash of red feathers, Ella landed in the chariot. “Ella is here. 
Amazons are pointy. Go now.” 

“Hold on!” Hazel warned. She leaned forward and said, “Arion, run!” 

The world seemed to elongate. Sunlight bent around them. Arion shot 
away from the Amazons and sped through downtown Seattle. Hazel 
glanced back and saw a line of smoking pavement where Arion’s hooves 
had touched the ground. He thundered toward the docks, leaping over 




cars, barreling through intersections. 

Hazel screamed at the top of her lungs, but it was a scream of delight. 
For the first time in her life — in her t wo lives — she felt absolutely 
unstoppable. Arion reached the water and leaped straight off the docks. 

Hazel's ears popped. She heard a roar that she later realized was a 
sonic boom, and Arion tore over Puget Sound, seawater turning to steam 
in his wake as the skyline of Seattle receded behind them. 




XXXIII 



FRANK 



Frank was relieved when the wheels fell off. 

He’d already thrown up twice from the back of the chariot, which was 
not fun at the speed of sound. The horse seemed to bend time and space 
as he ran, blurring the landscape and making Frank feel like he'd just drunk 
a gallon of whole milk without his lactose-intolerance medicine. Ella didn’t 
help matters. She kept muttering: “Seven hundred and fifty miles per hour. 
Eight hundred. Eight hundred and three. Fast. Very fast.” 

The horse sped north across Puget Sound, zooming past islands and 
fishing boats and very surprised pods of whales. The landscape ahead 
began to look familiar — Crescent Beach, Boundary Bay. Frank had gone 
sailing here once on a school trip. They’d crossed into Canada. 

The horse rocketed onto dry land. He followed Highway 99 north, 
running so fast, the cars seemed to be standing still. 

Finally, just as they were getting into Vancouver, the chariot wheels 
began to smoke. 

“Hazel!” Frank yelled. “We’re breaking up!” 

She got the message and pulled the reins. The horse didn’t seem 
happy about it, but he slowed to subsonic as they zipped through the city 
streets. They crossed the Ironworkers bridge into North Vancouver, and the 
chariot started to rattle dangerously. At last Arion stopped at the top of a 
wooded hill. He snorted with satisfaction, as if to say, That’s howv\e run, 
fools. The smoking chariot collapsed, spilling Percy, Frank, and Ella onto 
the wet, mossy ground. 

Frank stumbled to his feet. He tried to blink the yellow spots out of his 



eyes. Percy groaned and started unhitching Arion from the ruined chariot. 
Ella fluttered around in dizzy circles, bonking into the trees and muttering, 
"Tree. Tree. Tree.” 

Only Hazel seemed unaffected by the ride. Grinning with pleasure, she 
slid off the horse's back. “That was fun!” 

"Yeah.” Frank swallowed back his nausea. “So much fun.” 

Arion whinnied. 

“He says he needs to eat,” Percy translated. “No wonder. He probably 
burned about six million calories.” 

Hazel studied the ground at her feet and frowned. “I’m not sensing any 
gold around here. ...Don't worry, Arion. I'll find you some. In the meantime, 
why don't you go graze? We'll meet you — ” 

The horse zipped off, leaving a trail of steam in his wake. 

Hazel knit her eyebrows. “Do you think he'll come back?” 

“I don't know,” Percy said. “He seems kind of. ..spirited.” 

Frank almost hoped the horse would stay away. He didn’t say that, of 
course. He could tell Hazel was distressed by the idea of losing her new 
friend. But Arion scared him, and Frank was pretty sure the horse knew it. 

Hazel and Percy started salvaging supplies from the chariot 
wreckage. There had been a few boxes of random Amazon merchandise 
in the front, and Ella shrieked with delight when she found a shipment of 
books. She snatched up a copy of The Birds of North America, fluttered to 
the nearest branch, and began scratching through the pages so fast, Frank 
wasn't sure if she was reading or shredding. 

Frank leaned against a tree, trying to control his vertigo. He still hadn't 
recovered from his Amazon imprisonment — getting kicked across the 
lobby, disarmed, caged, and insulted as a baby man by an egomaniacal 
horse. That hadn't exactly helped his self-esteem. 

Even before that, the vision he had shared with Hazel had left him 
rattled. He felt closer to her now. He knew he’d done the right thing in 
giving her the piece of firewood. A huge weight had been taken off his 
shoulders. 

On the other hand, he'd seen the Underworld firsthand. He had felt 
what it was like to sit forever doing nothing, just regretting your mistakes. 




He'd looked up at those creepy goldmasks on the judges of the dead and 
realized that he would stand before them someday, maybe very soon. 

Frank had always dreamed of seeing his mother again when he died. 
But maybe that wasn’t possible for demigods. Hazel had been in Asphodel 
for something like seventy years and never found her mom. Frank hoped 
he and his mom would both end up in Elysium. But if Hazel hadn't gotten 
there — sacrificing her life to stop Gaea, taking responsibility for her actions 
so that her mother wouldn’t end up in Punishment — what chance did Frank 
have? He'd never done anything that heroic. 

He straightened and looked around, trying to get his bearings. 

To the south, across Vancouver Harbor, the downtown skyline 
gleamed red in the sunset. To the north, the hills and rain forests of Lynn 
Canyon Park snaked between the subdivisions of North Vancouver until 
they gave way to the wilderness. 

Frank had explored this park for years. He spotted a bend in the river 
that looked familiar. He recognized a dead pine tree that had been split by 
lightning in a nearby clearing. Frank knew this hill. 

“I’m practically home,” he said. “My grandmother's house is right over 
there.” 

Hazel squinted. “How far?” 

“Just over the river and through the woods.” 

Percy raised an eyebrow. “Seriously? To Grandmother's house we 

go?” 

Frank cleared his throat. “Yeah, anyway.” 

Hazel clasped her hands in prayer. “Frank, please tell me she'll let us 
spend the night. I know we're on a deadline, but we’ve got to rest, right? 
And Arion saved us some time. Maybe we could get an actual cooked 
meal?” 

"And a hot shower?” Percy pleaded. “And a bed with, like, sheets and 
a pillow?” 

Frank tried to imagine Grandmother’s face if he showed up with two 
heavily armed friends and a harpy. Everything had changed since his 
mother's funeral, since the morning the wolves had taken him south. He'd 
been so angry about leaving. Now, he couldn't imagine going back. 




Still, he and his friends were exhausted. They'd been traveling for 
more than two days without decent food or sleep. Grandmother could give 
them supplies. And maybe she could answer some questions that were 
brewing in the back of Frank’s mind — a growing suspicion about his family 
gift. 

“It’s worth a try,” Frank decided. “To Grandmother's house we go.” 

Frank was so distracted, he would have walked right into the ogres' camp. 
Fortunately Percy pulled him back. 

They crouched next to Hazel and Ella behind a fallen log and peered 
into the clearing. 

"Bad,” Ella murmured. “This is bad for harpies.” 

It was fully dark now. Around a blazing campfire sat half a dozen 
shaggy-haired humanoids. Standing up, they probably would've been eight 
feet tall — tiny compared to the giant Polybotes or even the Cyclopes they'd 
seen in California, but that didn't make them any less scary. They wore only 
knee-length surfer shorts. Their skin was sunstroke red — covered with 
tattoos of dragons, hearts, and bikini-clad women. Hanging from a spit 
over the fire was a skinned animal, maybe a boar, and the ogres were 
tearing off chunks of meat with their clawlike fingernails, laughing and 
talking as they ate, baring pointy teeth. Next to the ogres sat several mesh 
bags filled with bronze spheres like cannonballs. The spheres must have 
been hot, because they steamed in the cool evening air. 

Two hundred yards beyond the clearing, the lights of the Zhang 
mansion glowed through the trees. So close, Frank thought. He wondered 
if they could sneak around the monsters, but when he looked left and right, 
he saw more campfires in either direction, as if the ogres had surrounded 
the property. Frank’s fingers dug into the tree bark. His grandmother might 
be alone inside the house, trapped. 

“What are these guys?” he whispered. 

“Canadians,” Percy said. 

Frank leaned away from him. "Excuse me?” 

"Uh, no offense,” Percy said. “That’s whatAnnabeth called them when I 
fought them before. She said they live in the north, in Canada.” 




"Yeah, well,” Frank grumbled, “we're in Canada. I’m Canadian. But I've 
never seen those things before.” 

Ella plucked a feather from her wings and turned it in her fingers. 
“Laistrygonians,” she said. “Cannibals. Northern giants. Sasquatch legend. 
Yep, yep. They're not birds. Not birds of North America.” 

“That's what they’re called,” Percy agreed. “Laistry — uh, whatever Ella 
said.” 

Frank scowled at the dudes in the clearing. “They could be mistaken 
for Bigfoot. Maybe that’s where the legend came from. Ella, you’re pretty 
smart.” 

“Ella is smart,” she agreed. She shyly offered Frank her feather. 

“Oh... thanks.” He stuck the feather in his pocket, then noticed Hazel 
was glaring at him. "What?” he asked. 

“Nothing.” She turned to Percy. “So your memory is coming back? Do 
you remember how you beat these guys?” 

“Sort of,” Percy said. “It’s still fuzzy. I think I had help. We killed them 
with Celestial bronze, but that was before ... you know.” 

"Before Death got kidnapped,” Hazel said. “So now, they might not die 
at all.” 

Percy nodded. “Those bronze cannonballs... those are bad news. I 
think we used some of them against the giants. They catch fire and blow 
up.” 

Frank's hand went to his coat pocket. Then he remembered Hazel had 
his piece of driftwood. “If we cause any explosions,” he said, “the ogres at 
the other camps will come running. I think they’ve surrounded the house, 
which means there could be fifty or sixty of these guys in the woods.” 

“So it’s a trap.” Hazel looked at Frank with concern. “What about your 
grandmother? We've got to help her.” 

Frank felt a lump in his throat. Never in a million years had he thought 
his grandmother would need rescuing, but now he started running combat 
scenarios in his mind — the way he had back at camp during the war 
games. 

“We need a distraction,” he decided. “If we can draw this group into 
the woods, we might sneak through without alerting the others.” 




“I wish Arion was here,” Hazel said. “I could get the ogres to chase 
me.” 

Frank slipped his spear off his back. “I've got another idea.” 

Frank didn’t want to do this. The idea of summoning Gray scared him 
even more than Hazel's horse. But he didn't see another way. 

"Frank, you can't charge out there!” Hazel said. “That's suicide!” 

“I’m not charging,” Frank said. “I’ve got a friend. Just... nobody scream, 
okay?” 

He jabbed the spear into the ground, and the point broke off. 

“Oops,” Ella said. “No spear point. Nope, nope.” 

The ground trembled. Gray’s skeletal hand broke the surface. Percy 
fumbled for his sword, and Hazel made a sound like a cat with a hairball. 
Ella disappeared and rematerialized at the top of the nearest tree. 

“It’s okay,” Frank promised. “He's under control!” 

Gray crawled out of the ground. He showed no sign of damage from 
his previous encounter with the basilisks. He was good as a new in his 
camouflage and combat boots, translucent gray flesh covering his bones 
like glowing Jell-O. He turned his ghostly eyes toward Frank, waiting for 
orders. 

“Frank, that’s a spartus,” Percy said. "A skeleton warrior. They're evil. 
They're killers. They're — ” 

“I know,” Frank said bitterly. “But it’s a gift from Mars. Right now that’s 
all I’ve got. Okay, Gray. Your orders: attack that group of ogres. Lead them 
off to the west, causing a diversion so we can — ” 

Unfortunately, Gray lost interest after the word “ogres.” Maybe he only 
understood simple sentences. He charged toward the ogres' campfire. 

“Wait!” Frank said, but it was too late. Gray pulled two of his own ribs 
from his shirt and ran around the fire, stabbing the ogres in the back with 
such blinding speed they didn’t even have time to yell. Six extremely 
surprised-looking Laistrygonians fell sideways like a circle of dominoes 
and crumbled into dust. 

Gray stomped around, kicking their ashes apart as they tried to re- 
form. When he seemed satisfied that they weren't coming back, Gray 
stood at attention, saluted smartly in Frank's direction, and sank into the 




forest floor. 

Percy stared at Frank. “How — ” 

"No Laistrygonians.” Ella fluttered down and landed next to them. “Six 
minus six is zero. Spears are good for subtraction. Yep.” 

Hazel looked at Frank as if he’d turned into a zombie skeleton himself. 
Frank thought his heart might shatter, but he couldn't blame her. Children of 
Mars were all about violence. Mars’s symbol was a bloody spear for good 
reason. Why shouldn't Hazel be appalled? 

He glared down at broken tip of his spear. He wished he had any 
father but Mars. "Let’s go,” he said. “My grandmother might be in trouble.” 




XXXIV 



FRANK 



They stopped at the front porch. As Frank had feared, a loose ring of 
campfires glowed in the woods, completely surrounding the property, but 
the house itself seemed untouched. 

Grandmother’s wind chimes jangled in the night breeze. Her wicker 
chair sat empty, facing the road. Lights shone through the downstairs 
windows, but Frank decided against ringing the doorbell. He didn't know 
how late it was, or if Grandmother was asleep or even home. Instead he 
checked the stone elephant statue in the corner — a tiny duplicate of the 
one in Portland. The spare key was still tucked under its foot. 

He hesitated at the door. 

“What’s wrong?” Percy asked. 

Frank remembered the morning he'd opened this door for the military 
officer who had told him about his mother. He remembered walking down 
these steps to her funeral, holding his piece of firewood in his coat for the 
first time. He remembered standing here and watching the wolves come 
out of the woods — Lupa’s minions, who would lead him to Camp Jupiter. 
That seemed so long ago, but it had only been six weeks. 

Now he was back. Would Grandmother hug him? Would she say, 
Frank, thank the gods you’ve come! I’m surrounded by monsters! 

More likely she’d scold him, or mistake them for intruders and chase 
them off with a frying pan. 

“Frank?” Hazel asked. 

“Ella is nervous,” the harpy muttered from her perch on the railing. “The 



elephant — the elephant is looking at Ella.” 

“It’ll be fine.” Frank’s hand was shaking so badly he could barely fit the 
key in the lock. “Just stay together.” 

Inside, the house smelled closed-up and musty. Usually the air was 
scented with jasmine incense, but all the burners were empty. 

They examined the living room, the dining room, the kitchen. Dirty 
dishes were stacked in the sink, which wasn't right. Grandmother’s maid 
came every day — unless she'd been scared off by the giants. 

Or eaten for lunch, Frank thought. Ella had said the Laistrygonians 
were cannibals. 

He pushed that thought aside. Monsters ignored regular mortals. At 
least, they usually did. 

In the parlor, Buddha statues and Taoist immortals grinned at them 
like psycho clowns. Frank remembered Iris, the rainbow goddess, who'd 
been dabbling in Buddhism and Taoism. Frank figured one visit to this 
creepy old house would cure her of that. 

Grandmother's large porcelain vases were strung with cobwebs. 
Again — that wasn’t right. She insisted that her collection be dusted 
regularly. Looking at the porcelain, Frank felt a twinge of guilt for having 
destroyed so many pieces the day of the funeral, it seemed silly to him now 
— getting angry at Grandmother when he had so many others to be angry 
at: Juno, Gaea, the giants, his dad Mars. Especially Mars. 

The fireplace was dark and cold. 

Hazel hugged her chest as if to keep the piece of firewood from 
jumping into the hearth. "Is that — ” 

"Yeah,” Frank said. “That's it.” 

“That's what?” Percy asked. 

Hazel's expression was sympathetic, but that just made Frank feel 
worse. He remembered how terrified, how repulsed she had looked when 
he had summoned Gray. 

“It’s the fireplace," he told Percy, which sounded stupidly obvious. 
“Come on. Let’s check upstairs.” 

The steps creaked under their feet. Frank’s old room was the same. 
None of his things had been touched — his extra bow and quiver (he’d have 




to grab those later), his spelling awards from school (yeah, he probably 
was the only non-dyslexic spelling champion demigod in the world, as if he 
weren't enough of a freak already), and his photos of his mom — in her flak 
jacket and helmet, sitting on a Humvee in Kandahar Province; in her 
soccer coach uniform, the season she’d coached Frank’s team; in her 
military dress uniform, her hands on Frank's shoulders, the time she'd 
visited his school for career day. 

"Your mother?” Hazel asked gently. “She's beautiful.” 

Frank couldn't answer. He felt a little embarrassed — a sixteen-year-old 
guy with a bunch of pictures of his mom. 

How hopelessly lame was that? But mostly he felt sad. Six weeks 
since he'd been here. In some ways it seemed like forever. But when he 
looked at his mom’s smiling face in those photos, the pain of losing her 
was as fresh as ever. 

They checked the other bedrooms. The middle two were empty. A dim 
light flickered under the last door — Grandmother's room. 

Frank knocked quietly. No one answered. He pushed open her door. 
Grandmother lay in bed, looking gaunt and frail, her white hair spread 
around her face like a basilisk’s crown. A single candle burned on the 
nightstand. At her bedside sat a large man in beige Canadian Forces 
fatigues. Despite the gloom, he wore dark sunglasses with blood red light 
glowing behind the lenses. 

“Mars,” Frank said. 

The god looked up impassively. “Hey, kid. Come on in. Tell your 
friends to take a hike.” 

"Frank?” Hazel whispered. “What do mean, Mars'? Is your 
grandmother ... is she okay?” 

Frank glanced at his friends. “You don't see him?” 

“See who?” Percy gripped his sword. “Mars? Where?” 

The war god chuckled. "Nah, they can't see me. Figured it was better 
this time. Just a private conversation — father/son, right?” 

Frank clenched his fists. He counted to ten before he trusted himself to 
speak. 

“Guys, it’s. ..it’s nothing. Listen, why don't you take the middle 



bedrooms?” 

“Roof,” Ella said. “Roofs are good for harpies.” 

“Sure,” Frank said in a daze. “There’s probably food in the kitchen. 
Would you give me a few minutes alone with my grandmother? I think she 

His voice broke. He wasn’t sure if he wanted to cry orscream or punch 
Mars in the glasses — maybe all three. 

Hazel laid her hand on his arm. “Of course, Frank. Come on, Ella, 
Percy.” 

Frank waited until his friends’ steps receded. Then he walked into the 
bedroom and closed the door. 

"Is it really you?” he asked Mars. “This isn’t a trick or illusion or 
something?” 

The god shook his head. “You'd prefer it if it wasn't me?” 

"Yes,” Frank confessed. 

Mars shrugged. “Can't blame you. Nobody welcomes war — not if 
they're smart. But war finds everyone sooner or later. It’s inevitable.” 

“That's stupid,” Frank said. “War isn't inevitable. It kills people. It — ” 

“ — took your mom,” Mars finished. 

Frank wanted to smack the calm look off his face, but maybe that was 
just Mars’s aura making him feel aggressive. He looked down at his 
grandmother, sleeping peacefully. He wished she would wake up. If anyone 
could take on a war god, his grandmother could. 

“She's ready to die,” Mars said. “She's been ready for weeks, but 
she's holding on for you.” 

“For me?” Frank was so stunned he almost forgot his anger. “Why? 
How could she know I was coming back? / didn't know!” 

"The Laistrygonians outside knew,” Mars said. “I imagine a certain 
goddess told them.” 

Frank blinked. “Juno?” 

The war god laughed so loudly the windows rattled, but Grandmother 
didn't even stir. “Juno? Boar’s whiskers, kid. Not Juno! You’re Juno's 
secret weapon. She wouldn’t sell you out. No, I meant Gaea. Obviously 




she's been keeping track of you. I think you worry her more than Percy or 
Jason or any of the seven.” 

Frank felt like the room was tilting. He wished there were another chair 
to sit in. “The seven... you mean in the ancient prophecy, the Doors of 
Death? I’m one of the seven? And Jason, and — ” 

"Yes, yes.” Mars waved his hand impatiently. “Come on, boy. You're 
supposed to be a good tactician. Think it through! Obviously your friends 
are being groomed for that mission too, assuming you make it back from 
Alaska alive. Juno aims to unite the Greeks and Romans and send them 
against the giants. She believes it’s the only way to stop Gaea.” 

Mars shrugged, clearly unconvinced of the plan. “Anyway, Gaea 
doesn't want you to be one of the seven. Percy Jackson. . .she believes she 
can control him. All of the others have weaknesses she can exploit. But 
you — you worry her. She’d rather kill you right away. That's why she 
summoned the Laistrygonians. They've been here for days, waiting.” 

Frank shook his head. Was Mars playing some kind of trick? No way 
would a goddess be worried about Frank, especially when there was 
somebody like Percy Jackson to worry about. 

"No weaknesses?” he asked. “I'm nothing but weaknesses. My life 
depends on a piece of wood!” 

Mars grinned. “You’re selling yourself short. Anyway, Gaea has these 
Laistrygonians convinced that if they eat the last member of your family — 
that being you — they'll inherit your family gift. Whether that’s true or not, I 
don't know. But the Laistrygonians are hungry to try.” 

Frank's stomach twisted into a knot. Gray had killed six of the ogres, 
but judging from the campfires around the property, there were dozens 
more — all waiting to cook Frank for breakfast. 

“I’m going to throw up,” he said. 

“No, you’re not.” Mars snapped his fingers, and Frank’s queasiness 
disappeared. "Battle jitters. Happens to everybody.” 

"But my grandmother — ” 

“Yeah, she’s been waiting to talk to you. The ogres have left her alone 
so far. She’s the bait, see? Now that you're here, I imagine they've already 
smelled your presence. They'll attack in the morning.” 




"Get us out of here, then!” Frank demanded. “Snap your fingers and 
blow up the cannibals.” 

“Ha! That would be fun. But I don’t fight my kids’ battles for them. The 
Fates have clear ideas about what jobs belong to gods, and what has to 
be done by mortals. This is your quest, kid. And, uh, in case you haven't 
figured it out yet, your spear won’t be ready to use again for twenty-four 
hours, so I hope you've learned howto use the family gift. Otherwise, you're 
gonna be breakfast for cannibals.” 

The family gift. Frank had wanted to talk with Grandmother about it, 
but now he had no one to consult but Mars. He stared at the war god, who 
was smiling with absolutely no sympathy. 

"Periclymenus.” Frank sounded out the word carefully, like a spelling- 
bee challenge. “He was my ancestor, a Greek prince, an Argonaut. He 
died fighting Hercules.” 

Mars rolled his hand in a “go on”gesture. 

“He had an ability that helped him in combat," Frank said. “Some sort 
of gift from the gods. My mom said he fought like a swarm of bees.” 

Mars laughed. “True enough. What else?” 

“Somehow, the family got to China. I think, like in the days of the 
Roman Empire, one of Pericylmenus’s descendants served in a legion. My 
mom used to talk about a guy named Seneca Gracchus, but he also had a 
Chinese name, Sung Guo. I think — well, this is the part I don’t know, but 
Reyna always said there were many lost legions. The Twelfth founded 
Camp Jupiter. Maybe there was another legion that disappeared into the 
east.” 

Mars clapped silently. “Not bad, kid. Ever heard of the Battle of 
Carrhae? Huge disaster for the Romans. They fought these guys called the 
Parthians on the eastern border of the empire. Fifteen thousand Romans 
died. Ten thousand more were taken prisoner.” 

“And one of the prisoners was my ancestor SenecaGracchus?” 

“Exactly,” Mars agreed. “The Parthians put the captured legionnaires 
to work, since they were pretty good fighters. Except then Parthia got 
invaded again from the other direction — ” 

“By the Chinese,” Frank guessed. “And the Roman prisoners got 




captured again.” 

“Yeah. Kind of embarrassing. Anyway, that’s how a Roman legion got 
to China. The Romans eventually put down roots and built a new hometown 
called — ” 

“Li-Jien,” Frank said. "My mother said that was our ancestral home. Li- 
Jien. Legion.” 

Mars looked pleased. “Now you’re getting it. And old Seneca 
Gracchus, he had your family's gift.” 

“My mom said he fought dragons," Frank remembered. “She said he 
was... he was the most powerful dragon of all.” 

“Fie was good,” Mars admitted. “Not good enough to avoid the bad 
luck of his legion, but good. Fie settled in China, passed the family gift to 
his kids, and so on. Eventually your family emigrated to North America and 
got involved with Camp Jupiter — ” 

“Full circle,” Frank finished. “Juno said I would bring the family full 
circle.” 

“We'll see.” Mars nodded at his grandmother. “She wanted to tell you 
all this herself, but I figured I’d cover some of it since the old bird hasn’t got 
much strength. So do you understand your gift?” 

Frank hesitated. He had an idea, but it seemed crazy — even crazier 
than a family moving from Greece to Rome to China to Canada. He didn't 
want to say it aloud. He didn’t want to be wrong and have Mars laugh at 
him. “I — I think so. But against an army of those ogres — ” 

“Yeah, it'll be tough.” Mars stood and stretched. “When your 
grandmother wakes up in the morning, she’ll offer you some help. Then I 
imagine she'll die.” 

“What? But I have to save her! She can't just leave me.” 

“She's lived a full life,” Mars said. “She’s ready to move on. Don’t be 
selfish.” 

“Selfish!” 

“The old woman only stuck around this long out of a sense of duty. Your 
mom was the same way. That’s why I loved her. She always put her duty 
first, ahead of everything. Even her life.” 

“Even me.” 




Mars took off his sunglasses. Where his eyes should’ve been, 
miniature spheres of fire boiled like nuclear explosions. “Self-pity isn't 
helpful, kid. It isn't worthy of you. Even without the family gift, your mom 
gave you your most important traits — bravery, loyalty, brains. Now you've 
got to decide how to use them. In the morning, listen to your grandmother. 
Take her advice. You can still free Thanatos and save the camp.” 

"And leave my grandmother behind to die.” 

"Life is only precious because it ends, kid. Take it from a god. You 
mortals don't know how lucky you are.” 

"Yeah,” Frank muttered. “Real lucky.” 

Mars laughed — a harsh metallic sound. “Your mom used to tell me this 
Chinese proverb. Eat bitter — ” 

“Eat bitter, taste sweef, ’’Frank said. “I hate that proverb.” 

“But it’s true. What do they call it these days — no pain, no gain? Same 
concept. You do the easy thing, the appealing thing, the peaceful thing, 
mostly it turns out sour in the end. But if you take the hard path — ah, that’s 
how you reap the sweet rewards. Duty. Sacrifice. They mean something.” 
Frank was so disgusted he could hardly speak. This was his father? 
Sure, Frank understood about his mom being a hero. He understood 
she'd saved lives and been really brave. But she'd left him alone. That 
wasn't fair. It wasn't right. 

“I’ll be going,” Mars promised. “But first — you said you were weak. 
That's not true. You want to know why Juno spared you, Frank? Why that 
piece of wood didn't burn yet? 

It’s because you've got a role to play. You think you’re not as good as 
the other Romans. You think Percy Jackson is better than you.” 

“He is,” Frank grumbled. “He battled you and won.” 

Mars shrugged. “Maybe. Maybe so. But every hero has a fatal flaw. 
Percy Jackson? He’s too loyal to his friends. He can’t give them up, not for 
anything. He was told that, years ago. And someday soon, he’s going to 
face a sacrifice he can’t make. Without you, Frank — without your sense of 
duty — he's going to fail. The whole war will go sideways, and Gaea will 
destroy our world.” 




Frank shook his head. He couldn't hear this. 

“War is a duty,” Mars continued. “The only real choice is whether you 
accept it, and what you fight for. The legacy of Rome is on the line — five 
thousand years of law, order, civilization. The gods, the traditions, the 
cultures that shaped the world you live in: it’s all going to crumble, Frank, 
unless you win this. I think that’s worth fighting for. Think about it.” 

“What's mine?” Frank asked. 

Mars raised an eyebrow. "Your what?” 

"Fatal flaw. You said all heroes have one.” 

The god smiled dryly. “You gotta answer that yourself, Frank. But 
you're finally asking the right questions. Now, get some sleep. You need 
the rest.” 

The god waved his hand. Frank’s eyes felt heavy. He collapsed, and 
everything went dark. 

“Fai,” said a familiar voice, harsh and impatient. 

Frank blinked his eyes. Sunlight streamed into the room. 

“Fai, get up. As much as I would like to slap that ridiculous face of 
yours, I am in no condition to get out of bed.” 

“Grandmother?” 

She came into focus, looking down at him from the bed. He lay 
sprawled on the floor. Someone had put a blanket over him during the night 
and a pillow under his head, but he had no idea how it had happened. 

"Yes, my silly ox.” Grandmother still looked horribly weak and pale, but 
her voice was as steely as ever. “Now, get up. The ogres have surrounded 
the house. We have much to discuss if you and your friends are to escape 
here alive.” 




XXXV 



FRANK 



One look outthewindow, and Frank knew he was in trouble. 

At the edge of the lawn, the Laistrygonians were stacking bronze 
cannonballs. Their skin gleamed red. Their shaggy hair, tattoos, and claws 
didn’t look any prettier in the morning light. 

Some carried clubs or spears. A few confused ogres carried 
surfboards, like they’d shown up at the wrong party. All of them were in a 
festive mood — giving each other high fives, tying plastic bibs around their 
necks, breaking out the knives and forks. One ogre had fired up a portable 
barbecue and was dancing in an apron that said KISS the COOK. 

The scene would’ve been almost funny, except Frank knew he was the 
main course. 

“I’ve sent your friends to the attic,” Grandmother said. 

“You can join them when we’re done.” 

“The attic?” Frank turned. “You told me I could never go in there.” 

“That’s because we keep v\eapons in the attic, silly boy. Do you think 
this is the first time monsters have attacked our family?” 

“Weapons,” Frank grumbled. “Right. I’ve never handled weapons 
before.” 

Grandmother’s nostrils flared. “Was that sarcasm, Fai Zhang?” 

“Yes, Grandmother.” 

“Good. There may be hope for you yet. Now, sit. You must eat.” 

She waved her hand at the nightstand, where someone had set a 



glass of orange juice and a plate of poached eggs and bacon on toast — 
Frank's favorite breakfast. 

Despite his troubles, Frank suddenly felt hungry. Fie looked at 
Grandmother in astonishment. "Did you — ” 

“Make you breakfast? By Buddha’s monkey, of course not! And it 
wasn't the house staff. Too dangerous for them here. No, your girlfriend 
Flazel made that for you. And brought you a blanket and pillow last night. 
And picked out some clean clothes for you in your bedroom. By the way, 
you should shower. You smell like burning horse hair.” 

Frank opened and closed his mouth like a fish. He couldn’t make 
sounds come out. Hazel had done all that for him? Frank had been sure 
he'd destroyed any chance with her last night when he had summoned 
Gray. 

“She's. ..urn. ..she's not — ” 

“Not your girlfriend?” Grandmother guessed. “Well, she should be, you 
dolt! Don’t let her get away. You need strong women in your life, if you 
haven't noticed. Now, to business.” 

Frank ate while Grandmother gave him a sort of military briefing. In the 
daylight, her skin was so translucent, her veins seemed to glow. Her 
breathing sounded like a crackly paper bag inflating and deflating, but she 
spoke with firmness and clarity. 

She explained that the ogres had been surrounding the house for three 
days, waiting for Frank to show up. 

“They want to cook you and eat you,” she said distastefully, “which is 
ridiculous. You'd taste terrible.” 

"Thank you, Grandmother.” 

She nodded. “I admit, I was somewhat pleased when they said you 
were coming back. I am glad to see you one last time, even if your clothes 
are dirty and you need a haircut. Is this how you represent your family?” 

“I've been a little busy, Grandmother.” 

“No excuse for sloppiness. At any rate, your friends have slept and 
eaten. They are taking stock of the weapons in the attic. I told them you 
would be along shortly, but there are too many ogres to fend off for long. 
We must speak of your escape plan. Look in my nightstand.” 




Frank opened the drawer and pulled out a sealed envelope. 

“You know the airfield at the end of the park?” Grandmother asked. 
“Could you find it again?” 

Frank nodded mutely. It was about three miles to the north, down the 
main road through the canyon. Grandmother had taken him there 
sometimes when she would charter planes to bring in special shipments 
from China. 

"There is a pilot standing by to leave at a moment’s notice,” 
Grandmother said. “He is an old family friend. I have a letter for him in that 
envelope, asking him to take you north.” 

"But—” 

"Do not argue, boy,” she muttered. “Mars has been visiting me these 
last few days, keeping me company. He told me of your quest. Find Death 
in Alaska and release him. Do your duty.” 

"But if I succeed, you'll die. I'll never see you again.” 

“That is true,” Grandmother agreed. “But I'll die anyway. I’m old. I 
thought I made that clear. Now, did your praetor give you letters of 
introduction?” 

“Uh, yes, but — ” 

“Good. Show those to the pilot as well. He's a veteran of the legion. In 
case he has any doubts, or gets cold feet, those credentials will make him 
honor-bound to help you in any way possible. All you have to do is reach 
the airfield.” 

The house rumbled. Outside a ball of fire exploded in midair, lighting 
up the entire room. 

"The ogres are getting restless,” Grandmother said. “We must hurry. 
Now, about your powers, I hope you've figured them out.” 

"Uh...” 

Grandmother muttered some curses in rapid-fire 
Mandarin. “Gods of your ancestors, boy! Have you learned nothing?” 
"Yes!” He stammered out the details of his discussion with Mars the 
night before, but he felt much more tongue-tied in front of Grandmother. 
“The gift of Periclymenus...l think, I think he was a son of Poseidon, I mean 
Neptune, I mean...” Frank spread his hands. "The sea god.” 




Grandmother nodded grudgingly. “He was the grandson of Poseidon, 
but good enough. How did your brilliant intellect arrive at this fact?” 

"A seer in Portland. ..he said something about my great- grandfather, 
Shen Lun. The seer said he was blamed for the 1906 earthquake that 
destroyed San Francisco and the old location of Camp Jupiter.” 

"Go on.” 

“At camp, they said a descendant of Neptune had caused the 
disaster. Neptune is the god of earthquakes. But.. .but I don’t think great- 
grandfather actually did it. Causing earthquakes isn't our gift.” 

"No,” Grandmother agreed. "But yes, he was blamed. He was 
unpopular as a descendant of Neptune. He was unpopular because his 
real gift was much stranger than causing earthquakes. And he was 
unpopular because he was Chinese. A Chinese boy had never before 
claimed Roman blood. An ugly truth — but there is no denying it. He was 
falsely accused, forced out in shame.” 

“So. ..if he didn’t do anything wrong, why did you tell me to apologize 
for him?” 

Grandmother's cheeks flushed. “Because apologizing for something 
you didn’t do is better than dying for it! I wasn’t sure if the camp would hold 
you to blame. I did not know if the prejudice of the Romans had eased.” 
Frank swallowed down his breakfast. He’d been teased in school and 
on the streets sometimes, but not that much, and never at Camp Jupiter. 
Nobody at camp, not once, had made fun of him for being Asian. Nobody 
cared about that. They only made fun of him because he was clumsy and 
slow. He couldn’t imagine what it had been like for his great-grandfather, 
accused of destroying the entire camp, drummed out of the legion for 
something he didn't do. 

"And our real gift?” Grandmother asked. “Have you at least figured out 
what it is?” 

His mother’s old stories swirled in Frank's head. Fighting like a 
swarm of bees. He was the greatest dragon of all. He remembered his 
mother's appearing next to him in the backyard, as if she'd flown from the 
attic. He remembered her coming out of the woods, saying that she'd 
given a mama grizzly bear directions. 




‘You can be anything , "Frank said. “That's what she always told me.” 

Grandmother huffed. “Finally, a dim light goes on in that head of yours. 
Yes, Fai Zhang. Your mother was not simply boosting your self-esteem. 
She was telling you the literal truth.” 

“But...” Another explosion shook the house. Ceiling plaster fell like 
snow. Frank was so bewildered he barely noticed. 

“Anything?” 

“Within reason,” Grandmother said. “Living things. It helps if you know 
the creature well. It also helps if you are in a life-and-death situation, such 
as combat. Why do you look so surprised, Fai? You have always said you 
are not comfort able in your own body. We all feel that way — all of us with 
the blood of Pylos. This gift was only given once to a mortal family. We are 
unique among demigods. Poseidon must have been feeling especially 
generous when he blessed our ancestor — or especially spiteful. The gift 
has often proven a curse. It did not save your mother....” 

Outside, a cheer went up from the ogres. Someone shouted, “Zhang! 
Zhang!” 

“You must go, silly boy,” Grandmother said. “Our time is up.” 

“But — I don't know how to use my power. I've never — I can't — ” 

“You can,” Grandmother said. “Or you will not survive to realize your 
destiny. I don’t like this Prophecy of Seven that Mars told me about. Seven 
is an unlucky number in Chinese — a ghost number. But there is nothing we 
can do about that. Now, go! Tomorrow evening is the Feast of Fortuna. 
You have no time to waste. Don’t worry about me. I will die in my own time, 
in my own way. I have no intention of being devoured by those ridiculous 
ogres. Go!” 

Frank turned at the door. He felt like his heart was being squeezed 
through a juicer, but he bowed formally. “Thank you, Grandmother,” he said. 
“I will make you proud.” 

She muttered something under her breath. Frank almost thought she 
had said, You have. 

He stared at her, dumbfounded, but her expression immediately 
soured. “Stop gaping, boy! Go shower and dressIComb your hair! My last 
image of you, and you show me messy hair?” 




He patted down his hair and bowed again. 

His last image of Grandmother was of her glaring out the window, as if 
thinking about the terrible scolding she would give the ogres when they 
invaded her home. 




XXXVI 



FRANK 



Frank took the quickest possible shower, put on the clothes Hazel had set 
out — an olive-green shirt with beige cargo pants, really? — then grabbed 
his spare bow and quiver and bounded up the attic stairs. 

The attic was full of weapons. His family had collected enough ancient 
armaments to supply an army. Shields, spears, and quivers of arrows hung 
along one wall — almost as many as in the Camp Jupiter armory. At the 
back window, a scorpion crossbow was mounted and loaded, ready for 
action. At the front window stood something that looked like a machine gun 
with a cluster of barrels. 

“Rocket launcher?” he wondered aloud. 

“Nope, nope,” said a voice from the corner. “Potatoes. Ella doesn’t 
like potatoes.” 

The harpy had made a nest for herself between two old steamer 
trunks. She was sitting in a pile of Chinese scrolls, reading seven or eight 
at once. 

“Ella,” Frank said, “where are the others?” 

“Roof.” She glanced upward, then returned to her reading, alternately 
picking at her feathers and turning pages. “Roof. Ogre-watching. Ella 
doesn’t like ogres. Potatoes.” 

“Potatoes?” Frank didn't understand until he swiveled the machine gun 
around. Its eight barrels were loaded with spuds. At the base of the gun, a 
basket was filled with more edible ammunition. 

He looked out the window — the same window his mom had watched 



him from when he had met the bear. Down in the yard, the ogres were 
milling around, shoving each other, occasionally yelling at the house, and 
throwing bronze cannonballs that exploded in midair. 

"They have cannonballs,” Frank said. "And we have a potato gun.” 

“Starch,” Ella said thoughtfully. “Starch is bad for ogres.” 

The house shook from another explosion. Frank needed to reach the 
roof and see how Percy and Hazel were doing, but he felt bad leaving Ella 
alone. 

He knelt next to her, careful not to get too close. “Ella, it’s not safe here 
with the ogres. We’re going to be flying to Alaska soon. Will you come with 
us?” 

Ella twitched uncomfortably. “Alaska. Six hundred twenty-six thousand, 
four hundred twenty-five square miles. 

State mammal: the moose.” 

Suddenly she switched to Latin, which Frank could just barely follow 
thanks to his classes at Camp Jupiter: 

“To the north, beyond the gods, lies the legion’s crowi. Falling from 
ice, the son of Neptune shall drowi — ” She stopped and scratched her 
disheveled red hair. "Hmm. Burned. The rest is burned.” 

Frank could hardly breathe. “Ella, was... was that a prophecy? Where 
did you read that?” 

“Moose,” Ella said, savoring the word. “Moose. Moose. Moose.” 

The house shook again. Dust rained down from the rafters. Outside, 
an ogre bellowed, “Frank Zhang! Show yourself!” 

"Nope,” Ella said. “Frank shouldn't. Nope.” 

“Just... stay here, okay?” Frank said. “I've got to go help Hazel and 
Percy.” 

He pulled down the ladder to the roof. 

“Morning,” Percy said grimly. “Beautiful day, huh?” He wore the same 
clothes as the day before — jeans, his purple T-shirt, and Polartec jacket — 
but they'd obviously been freshly washed. He held his sword in one hand 
and a garden hose in the other. Why there was a garden hose on the roof, 




Frank wasn’t sure, but every time the giants sent up a cannonball, Percy 
summoned a high-powered blast of water and detonated the sphere in 
midair. Then Frank remembered — his family was descended from 
Poseidon, too. Grandmother had said their house had been attacked 
before. Maybe they had put a hose up here for just that reason. 

Hazel patrolled the widow’s walk between the two attic gables. She 
looked so good, it made Frank's chest hurt. She wore jeans, a cream- 
colored jacket, and a white shirt that made her skin look as warm as 
cocoa. Her curly hair fell around her shoulders. When she came close, 
Frank could smell jasmine shampoo. 

She gripped her sword. When she glanced at Frank, her eyes flashed 
with concern. "Are you okay?” she asked. “Why are you smiling?” 

“Oh, uh, nothing,” he managed. “Thanks for breakfast. And the clothes. 
And... not hating me.” 

Hazel looked baffled. “Why would I hate you?” 

Frank's face burned. He wished he’d kept his mouth shut, but it was 
too late now. Don’t let her get away, his grandmother had said. You need 
strong women. 

“It’s just... last night,” he stammered. “When I summoned the skeleton. I 
thought. . . I thought that you thought. . . I was repulsive ... or something.” 

Hazel raised her eyebrows. She shook her head in dismay. “Frank, 
maybe I was surprised. Maybe I was scared of that thing. But repulsed? 
The way you commanded it, so confident and everything — like, Oh, by the 
way, guys, I have this all-pov&rful spartus we can use. I couldn’t believe it. 
I wasn't repulsed, Frank. I was impressed.” 

Frank wasn't sure he'd heard her right. "You were. ..impressed ... by 
me?” 

Percy laughed. “Dude, it was pretty amazing.” 

“Honest?” Frank asked. 

“Honest,” Hazel promised. “But right now, we have other problems to 
worry about. Okay?” 

She gestured at the army of ogres, who were getting increasingly bold, 
shuffling closer and closer to the house. 

Percy readied the garden hose. “I've got one more trick up my sleeve. 




Your lawn has a sprinkler system. I can blow it up and cause some 
confusion down there, but that’ll destroy your water pressure. No pressure, 
no hose, and those cannonballs are going to plow right into the house.” 

Hazel's praise was still ringing in Frank’s ears, making it difficult to 
think. Dozens of ogres were camped on his lawn, waiting to tear him apart, 
and Frank could barely control the urge to grin. 

Hazel didn't hate him. She was impressed. 

He forced himself to concentrate. He remembered what his 
grandmother had told him about the nature of his gift, and how he had to 
leave her here to die. 

You’ve got a role to play, Mars had said. 

Frank couldn’t believe he was Juno's secret weapon, or that this big 
Prophecy of the Seven depended on him. But Hazel and Percy were 
counting on him. He had to do his best. 

He thought about that weird partial prophecy Ella had recited in the 
attic, about the son of Neptune drowning. 

You dont understand her true value, Phineas had told them in 
Portland. The old blind man had thought that controlling Ella would make 
him a king. 

All these puzzle pieces swirled around in Frank’s mind. He got the 
feeling that when they finally connected, they would create a picture he 
didn't like. 

“Guys, I’ve got an escape plan.” He told his friends about the plane 
waiting at the airfield, and his grandmother’s note for the pilot. “He’s a 
legion veteran. He'll help us.” 

“But Arion's not back,” Hazel said. “And what about your 
grandmother? We can't just leave her.” 

Frank choked back a sob. “Maybe — maybe Arion will find us. As for 
my grandmother. ..she was pretty clear. She said she'd be okay.” 

It wasn't exactly the truth, but it was as much as Frank could manage. 

“There's another problem,” Percy said. “I’m not good with air travel. It’s 
dangerous for a son of Neptune.” 

“You'll have to risk it.. ..and so will I,” Frank said. “By the way, we're 
related.” Percy almost stumbled off the roof. “What?” 




Frank gave them the five-second version: "Periclymenus. 

Ancestor on my mom's side. Argonaut. Grandson of Poseidon.” 

Hazel's mouth fell open. “You're a — a descendant of Neptune? Frank, 
that’s — ” 

“Crazy? Yeah. And there’s this ability my family has, supposedly. But I 
don't know how to use it. If I can't figure it out — ” 

Another massive cheer went up from the Laistrygonians. Frank 
realized they were staring up at him, pointing and waving and laughing. 
They had spotted their breakfast. 

"Zhang!” they yelled. “Zhang!” 

Hazel stepped closer to him. “They keep doing that. Why are they 
yelling your name?” 

"Never mind,” Frank said. “Listen, we've got to protect Ella, take her 
with us.” 

“Of course,” Hazel said. "The poor thing needs our help.” 

"No,” Frank said. “I mean yes, but it’s not just that. She recited a 
prophecy downstairs. I think. .. I think it was about this quest.” 

He didn’t want to tell Percy the bad news, about a son of Neptune 
drowning, but he repeated the lines. 

Percy’s jaw tightened. “I don’t know how a son of Neptune can drown. I 
can breathe underwater. But the crown of the legion — ” 

“That's got to be the eagle,” Hazel said. 

Percy nodded. “And Ella recited something like this once before, in 
Portland — a line from the old Great Prophecy.” 

"The what?” Frank asked. 

"Tell you later.” Percy turned his garden hose and shot another 
cannonball out of the sky. 

It exploded in an orange fireball. The ogres clapped with appreciation 
and yelled, "Pretty! Pretty!” 

"The thing is,” Frank said, “Ella remembers everything she reads. She 
said something about the page being burned, like she’d read a damaged 
text of prophecies.” 

Hazel's eyes widened. “Burned books of prophecy? You don't think — 




but that’s impossible!” 

"The books Octavian wanted, back at camp?” Percy guessed. 

Hazel whistled under her breath. “The lost Sibylline books that outlined 
the entire destiny of Rome. If Ella actually read a copy somehow, and 
memorized it — ” 

"Then she’s the most valuable harpy in the world,” Frank said. “No 
wonder Phineas wanted to capture her.” 

"Frank Zhang!” an ogre shouted from below. He was bigger than the 
rest, wearing a lion’s cape like a Roman standard bearer and a plastic bib 
with a lobster on it. “Come down, son of Mars! We’ve been waiting for you. 
Come, be our honored guest!” 

Hazel gripped Frank’s arm. “Why do I get the feeling that ‘honored 
guest' means the same thing as ‘dinner’?” 

Frank wished Mars were still there. He could use somebody to snap 
his fingers and make his battle jitters go away. 

Hazel believes in me, he thought. I can do this. 

He looked at Percy. “Can you drive?” 

“Sure. Why?” 

“Grandmother's car is in the garage. It’s an old Cadillac. The thing is 
like a tank. If you can get it started — ” 

“We'll still have to break through a line of ogres,” Hazel said. 

"The sprinkler system,” Percy said. “Use it as a distraction?” 

“Exactly,” Frank said. “I’ll buy you as much time as I can. Get Ella, and 
get in the car. I'll try to meet you in the garage, but don't wait for me.” 

Percy frowned. “Frank — ” 

“Give us your answer, Frank Zhang!” the ogre yelled up. “Come down, 
and we will spare the others — your friends, your poor old granny. We only 
want you!” 

“They're lying,” Percy muttered. 

"Yeah, I got that,” Frank agreed. “Go!” 

His friends ran for the ladder. 

Frank tried to control the beating of his heart. He grinned and yelled, 
“Hey, down there! Who’s hungry?” The ogres cheered as Frank paced 




along the widow's walk and waved like a rock star. 

Frank tried to summon his family power. He imagined himself as a 
fire-breathing dragon. He strained and clenched his fist and thought about 
dragons so hard, beads of sweat popped up on his forehead. He wanted 
to sweep down on the enemy and destroy them. That would be extremely 
cool. But nothing happened. He had no clue how to change himself. He 
had never even seen a real dragon. For a panicky moment, he wondered if 
Grandmother had played some sort of cruel joke on him. Maybe he'd 
misunderstood the gift. Maybe Frank was the only member of the family 
who hadn't inherited it. That would be just his luck. 

The ogres started to become restless. The cheering turned to catcalls. 
A few Laistrygonians hefted their cannonballs. 

“Hold on!” Frank yelled. “You don’t want to char me, do you? I won't 
taste very good that way.” 

“Come down!” they yelled. “Hungry!” 

Time for Plan B. Frank just wished he had one. 

“Do you promise to spare my friends?” Frank asked. “Do you swear 
on the River Styx?” 

The ogres laughed. One threw a cannonball that arced over Frank's 
head and blew up the chimney. By some miracle, Frank wasn’t hit with 
shrapnel. 

“I’ll take that as a no,” he muttered. Then he shouted down: 

“Okay, fine! You win! I'll be right down. Wait there!” The ogres cheered, 
but their leader in the lion's-skin cape scowled suspiciously. Frank wouldn't 
have much time. He descended the ladder into the attic. Ella was gone. He 
hoped that was a good sign. Maybe they’d gotten her to the Cadillac. He 
grabbed an extra quiver of arrows labeled assorted varieties in his 
mother's neat printing. Then he ran to the machine gun. 

He swiveled the barrel, took aim at the lead ogre, and pressed the 
trigger. Eight high-powered spuds blasted the giant in the chest, propelling 
him backward with such force that he crashed into a stack of bronze 
cannonballs, which promptly exploded, leaving a smoking crater in the 
yard. 

Apparently starch was bad for ogres. 




While the rest of the monsters ran around in confusion, Frank pulled 
his bow and rained arrows on them. Some of the missiles detonated on 
impact. Others splintered like buckshot and left the giants with some 
painful new tattoos. One hit an ogre and instantly turned him into a potted 
rosebush. 

Unfortunately, the ogres recovered quickly. They began throwing 
cannonballs — dozens at a time. The whole house groaned under the 
impact. Frank ran for the stairs. The attic disintegrated behind him. Smoke 
and fire poured down the second-floor hallway. 

“Grandmother!” he cried, but the heat was so intense, he couldn't 
reach her room. Fie raced to the ground floor, clinging to the banister as 
the house shook and huge chunks of the ceiling collapsed. 

The base of the staircase was a smoking crater. Fie leaped over it and 
stumbled through the kitchen. Choking from the ash and soot, he burst into 
the garage. The Cadillac’s headlights were on. The engine was running 
and the garage door was opening. 

“Get in!” Percy yelled. 

Frank dove in the back next to Hazel. Ella was curled up in the front, 
her head tucked under her wings, muttering, 

"Yikes. Yikes. Yikes.” 

Percy gunned the engine. They shot out of the garage before it was 
fully open, leaving a Cadillac-shaped hole of splintered wood. 

The ogres ran to intercept, but Percy shouted at the top of his lungs, 
and the irrigation system exploded. A hundred geysers shot into the air 
along with clods of dirt, pieces of pipe, and very heavy sprinkler heads. 

The Cadillac was going about forty when they hit the first ogre, who 
disintegrated on impact. By the time the other monsters overcame their 
confusion, the Cadillac was half a mile down the road. Flaming 
cannonballs burst behind them. 

Frank glanced back and saw his family mansion on fire, the walls 
collapsing inward and smoke billowing into the sky. He saw a large black 
speck — maybe a buzzard — circling up from the fire. It might've been 
Frank's imagination, but he thought it had flown out of the second-story 
window. 




“Grandmother?” he murmured. 

It seemed impossible, but she had promised she would die in her own 
way, not at the hands of the ogres. Frank hoped she had been right. 

They drove through the woods and headed north. 

"About three miles!” Frank said. "You can't miss it!” 

Behind them, more explosions ripped through the forest. Smoke 
boiled into the sky. 

“Flow fast can Laistrygonians run?” Flazel asked. 

“Let’s not find out,” Percy said. 

The gates of the airfield appeared before them — only a few hundred 
yards away. A private jet idled on the runway. Its stairs were down. 

The Cadillac hit a pothole and went airborne. Frank's head slammed 
into the ceiling. When the wheels touched the ground, Percy floored the 
brakes, and they swerved to a stop just inside the gates. 

Frank climbed out and drew his bow. "Get to the plane! They're 
coming!” 

The Laistrygonians were closing in with alarming speed. The first line 
of ogres burst out of the woods and barreled toward the airfield — five 
hundred yards away, four hundred yards... 

Percy and Hazel managed to get Ella out of the Cadillac, but as soon 
as the harpy saw the airplane, she began to shriek. 

“N-n-no!” she yelped. “Fly with wings! N-n-no airplanes.” 

“It’s okay,” Hazel promised. “We'll protect you!” 

Ella made a horrible, painful wail like she was being burned. 

Percy held up his hands in exasperation. “What do we do? We can't 
force her.” 

“No,” Frank agreed. The ogres were three hundred yards out. 

“She's too valuable to leave behind,” Hazel said. Then she winced at 
her own words. “Gods, I'm sorry, Ella. I sound as bad as Phineas. You're a 
living thing, not a treasure.”“No planes. N-n-no planes.” Ella was 
hyperventilating. 

The ogres were almost in throwing distance. 

Percy’s eyes lit up. “I’ve got an idea. Ella, can you hide in the woods? 




Will you be safe from the ogres?” 

“Hide,” she agreed. “Safe. Hiding is good for harpies. Ellais quick. 
And small. And fast.” 

“Okay,” Percy said. “Just stay around this area. I can send a friend to 
meet you and take you to Camp Jupiter.” 

Frank unslung his bow and nocked an arrow. "A friend?” 

Percy waved his hand in a tell you later gesture. “Ella, would you like 
that? Would you like my friend to take you to Camp Jupiter and show you 
our home?” 

“Camp,” Ella muttered. Then in Latin: ‘“Wisdom's daughter mlks 
alone, the Mark of Athena burns through Rome.” 

“Uh, right,” Percy said. “That sounds important, but we can talk about 
that later. You'll be safe at camp. All the books and food you want.” 

“No planes,” she insisted. 

"No planes,” Percy agreed. 

“Ella will hide now.” Just like that, she was gone — a red streak 
disappearing into the woods. 

“I’ll miss her,” Hazel said sadly. 

“We'll see her again,” Percy promised, but he frowned uneasily, as if 
he were really troubled by that last bit of prophecy — the thing about Athena. 

An explosion sent the airfield's gate spinning into the air. 

Frank tossed his grandmother's letter to Percy. “Show that to the pilot! 
Show him your letter from Reyna too! We've got to take off now’’ 

Percy nodded. He and Hazel ran for the plane. 

Frank took cover behind the Cadillac and started firing at the ogres. 
He targeted the largest clump of enemies and shot a tulip-shaped arrow. 
Just as he'd hoped, it was a hydra. 

Ropes lashed out like squid tentacles, and the entire front row of ogres 
plowed face first into the dirt. 

Frank heard the plane's engines rev. 

He shot three more arrows as fast as he could, blasting enormous 
craters in the ogres’ ranks. The survivors were only a hundred yards away, 
and some of the brighter ones stumbled to a stop, realizing that they were 




now within hurling range. 

"Frank!” Hazel shrieked. “Come on!” 

A fiery cannonball hurtled toward him in a slow arc. Frank knew 
instantly it was going to hit the plane. He nocked an arrow. I can do this, he 
thought. He let the arrow fly. It intercepted the cannonball midair, detonating 
a massive fireball. Another two cannonballs sailed toward him. Frank ran. 

Behind him, metal groaned as the Cadillac exploded. He dove into the 
plane just as the stairs started to rise. 

The pilot must've understood the situation just fine. There was no 
safety announcement, no pre-flight drink, and no waiting for clearance. He 
pushed the throttle, and the plane shot down the runway. Another blast 
ripped through the runway behind them, but then they were in the air. 

Frank looked down and saw the airstrip riddled with craters like a 
piece of burning Swiss cheese. Swaths of Lynn Canyon Park were on fire. 
A few miles to the south, a swirling pyre of flames and black smoke was all 
that remained of the Zhang family mansion. 

So much for Frank being impressive. He'd failed to save his 
grandmother. He’d failed to use his powers. He hadn’t even saved their 
harpy friend. When Vancouver disappeared in the clouds below, Frank 
buried his head in his hands and started to cry. 

The plane banked to the left. 

Over the intercom, the pilot's voice said, “Senatus Populusque 
Romanus, my friends. Welcome aboard. Next stop: Anchorage, Alaska.” 




X X X V I 1 



PERCY 



Airplanes or cannibals? no contest. 

Percy would’ve preferred driving Grandma Zhang's 

Cadillac all the way to Alaska with fireball-throwing ogres on his tail 
rather than sitting in a luxury Gulf stream. 

He’d flown before. The details were hazy, but he remembered a 
pegasus named Blackjack. He’d even been in a plane once or twice. But a 
son of Neptune (Poseidon, whateverjdidn’t belong in the air. Every time the 
plane hit a spot of turbulence, Percy's heart raced, and he was sure Jupiter 
was slapping them around. 

He tried to focus as Frank and Hazel talked. Hazel was reassuring 
Frank that he’d done everything he could for his grandmother. Frank had 
saved them from the Laistrygonians and gotten them out of Vancouver. 
He’d been incredibly brave. 

Frank kept his head down like he was ashamed to have been crying, 
but Percy didn't blame him. The poor guy had just lost his grandmother and 
seen his house go up in flames. As far as Percy was concerned, shedding 
a few tears about something like that didn’t make you any less of a man, 
especially when you had just fended off an army of ogres that wanted to eat 
you for breakfast. 

Percy still couldn’t get over the fact that Frank was a distant relative. 
Frank would be his... what? Great-times-a-thousand nephew? Too weird 
for words. 

Frank refused to explain exactly what his “family gift” was, but as they 
flew north, Frank d/dtell them about his conversation with Mars the night 



before. He explained the prophecy Juno had issued when he was a baby 
— about his life being tied to a piece of firewood, and how he had asked 
Hazel to keep it for him. 

Some of that, Percy had already figured out. Hazel and Frank had 
obviously shared some crazy experiences when they had blacked out 
together, and they'd made some sort of deal. It also explained why even 
now, out of habit, Frank kept checking his coat pocket, and why he was so 
nervous around fire. Still, Percy couldn’t imagine what kind of courage it 
had taken for Frank to embark on a quest, knowing that one small flame 
could snuff out his life. 

“Frank,” he said, “I’m proud to be related to you.” 

Frank's ears turned red. With his head lowered, his military haircut 
made a sharp black arrow pointing down. “Juno has some sort of plan for 
us, about the Prophecy of Seven.” 

"Yeah,” Percy grumbled. “I didn't like her as Hera. I don't like her any 
better as Juno.” Hazel tucked her feet underneath her. She studied Percy 
with her luminescent golden eyes, and he wondered how she could be so 
calm. She was the youngest one on the quest, but she was always holding 
them together and comforting them. Now they were flying to Alaska, where 
she had died once before. They would try to free Thanatos, who might take 
her back to the Underworld. Yet she didn't show any fear. It made 

Percy feel silly for being scared of airplane turbulence. 

“You're a son of Poseidon, aren't you?” she asked. “You are a Greek 
demigod.” 

Percy gripped his leather necklace. “I started to remember in Portland, 
after the gorgon's blood. It’s been coming back to me slowly since then. 
There's another camp — Camp Half-Blood.” 

Just saying the name made Percy feel warm inside. Good memories 
washed over him: the smell of strawberry fields in the warm summer sun, 
fireworks lighting up the beach on the Fourth of July, satyrs playing 
panpipes at the nightly campfire, and a kiss at the bottom of the canoe 
lake. 

Hazel and Frank stared at him as though he'd slipped into another 
language. 




“Another camp,” Hazel repeated. “A Greek camp? Gods, if Octavian 
found out — ” 

“He'd declare war,” Frank said. “He’s always been sure the Greeks 
were out there, plotting against us. He thought Percy was a spy.” 

“That's why Juno sent me,” Percy said. “Uh, I mean, not to spy. I think it 
was some kind of exchange. Your friend 

Jason — I think he was sent to my camp. In my dreams, I saw a 
demigod that might have been him. He was working with some other 
demigods on this flying warship. I think they're coming to Camp Jupiter to 
help.” 

Frank tapped nervously on the back of his seat. “Mars said Juno wants 
to unite the Greeks and Romans to fight Gaea. But, jeez — Greeks and 
Romans have a long history of bad blood.” 

Hazel took a deep breath. “That's probably why the gods have kept us 
apart this long. If a Greek warship appeared in the sky above Camp 
Jupiter, and Reyna didn't know it was friendly — ” 

“Yeah,” Percy agreed. “We’ve got to be careful how we explain this 
when we get back.” 

“/fwe get back,” Frank said. 

Percy nodded reluctantly. “I mean, I trust you guys. I hope you trust me. 

I feel... well, I feel as close to you two as to any of my old friends at Camp 
Half-Blood. But with the other demigods, at both camps — there’s going to 
be a lot of suspicion.” 

Hazel did something he wasn’t expecting. She leaned over and kissed 
him on the cheek. It was totally a sisterly kiss. But she smiled with such 
affection, it warmed Percy right down to his feet. 

“Of course we trust you,” she said. “We’re a family now. Aren’t we, 
Frank?” 

“Sure,” he said. "Do I get a kiss?” 

Hazel laughed, but there was nervous tension in it. “Anyway, what do 
we do now?” 

Percy took a deep breath. Time was slipping away. 

They were almost halfway through June twenty-third, and tomorrow 
was the Feast of Fortuna. “I’ve got to contact a friend — to keep my promise 




to Ella.” 

“How?” Frank said. “One of those Iris-messages?” 

“Still not working,” Percy said sadly. “I tried it last night at your 
grandmother's house. No luck. Maybe it’s because my memories are still 
jumbled. Or the gods aren't allowing a connection. I'm hoping I can contact 
my friend in my dreams.” 

Another bump of turbulence made him grab his seat. Below them, 
snowcapped mountains broke through a blanket of clouds. 

“I’m not sure I can sleep," Percy said. “But I need to try. We can’t leave 
Ella by herself with those ogres around.” 

“Yeah,” Frank said. “We've still got hours to fly. Take the couch, man.” 

Percy nodded. He felt lucky to have Hazel and Frank watching out for 
him. What he’d said to them was true — he trusted them. In the weird, 
terrifying, horrible experience of losing his memory and getting ripped out 
of his old life — Hazel and Frank were the bright spots. 

He stretched out, closed his eyes, and dreamed he was falling from a 
mountain of ice toward a cold sea. 

The dream shifted. He was back in Vancouver, standing in front of the ruins 
of the Zhang mansion. The Laistrygonians were gone. The mansion was 
reduced to a burned-out shell. A crew of firefighters was packing up their 
equipment, getting ready to move out. The lawn looked like a war zone, 
with smoking craters and trenches from the blown-out irrigation pipes. 

At the edge of the forest, a giant shaggy black dog was bounding 
around, sniffing the trees. The firefighters completely ignored him. 

Beside one of the craters knelt a Cyclops in oversized jeans, boots, 
and a massive flannel shirt. His messy brown hair was spattered with rain 
and mud. When he raised his head, his big brown eye was red from crying. 

“Close!” he moaned. “So close, but gone!” 

It broke Percy’s heart to hear the pain and worry in the big guy’s voice, 
but he knew they only had a few seconds to talk. The edges of the vision 
were already dissolving, if Alaska was the land beyond the gods, Percy 
figured the farther north he went, the harder it would be to communicate 
with his friends, even in his dreams. 




“Tyson!” he called. 

The Cyclops looked around frantically. "Percy? Brother?” 

“Tyson, I’m okay. I’m here — well, not really.” 

Tyson grabbed the air like he was trying to catch butterflies. “Can’t see 
you! Where is my brother?” 

“Tyson, I’m flying to Alaska. I’m okay. I’ll be back. Just find Ella. She's 
a harpy with red feathers. She's hiding in the woods around the house.” 

“Find a harpy? A red harpy?” 

“Yes! Protect her, okay? She’s my friend. Get her back to California. 
There's a demigod camp in the Oakland Hills — Camp Jupiter. Meet me 
above the Caldecott Tunnel.” 

“Oakland Hills ... California ... Caldecott Tunnel.” He shouted to the 
dog: “Mrs. O'Leary! We must find a harpy!” 

“WOOF!” said the dog. 

Tyson's face started to dissolve. “My brother is okay? My brother is 
coming back? I miss you!” 

“I miss you, too." Percy tried to keep his voice from cracking. “I'll see 
you soon. Just be careful! There’s a giant’s army marching south. Tell 
Annabeth — ” 

The dream shifted. 

Percy found himself standing in the hills north of Camp Jupiter, looking 
down at the Field of Mars and New Rome. At the legion’s fort, horns were 
blowing. Campers scrambled to muster. 

The giant’s army was arrayed to Percy’s left and right — centaurs with 
bull's horns, the six-armed Earthborn, and evil Cyclopes in scrap-metal 
armor. The Cyclopes’ siege tower cast a shadow across the feet of the 
giant Polybotes, who grinned down at the Roman camp. He paced eagerly 
across the hill, snakes dropping from his green dreadlocks, his dragon 
legs stomping down small trees. On his green-blue armor, the decorative 
faces of hungry monsters seemed to blink in the shadows. 

“Yes,” he chuckled, planting his trident in the ground. “Blow your little 
horns, Romans. I've come to destroy you! Stheno!” 

The gorgon scrambled out of the bushes. Her lime green viper hair 
and Bargain Mart vest clashed horribly with the giant's color scheme. 




“Yes, master!” she said. “Would you like a Puppy-in-a- 
Blanket?” 

She held up a tray of free samples. 

“Hmm,” Polybotes said. “What sort of puppy?” 

"Ah, they're not actually puppies. They're tiny hot dogs in crescent rolls, 
but they're on sale this week — ” 

“Bah! Never mind, then! Are our forces ready to attack?” 

“Oh — ” Stheno stepped back quickly to avoid getting flattened by the 
giant’s foot. “Almost, great one. Ma Gasket and half her Cyclopes stopped 
in Napa. Something about a winery tour? They promised to be here by 
tomorrow evening.” 

“What?” The giant looked around, as if just noticing that a big portion 
of his army was missing. “Gah! That Cyclops woman will give me an ulcer. 
Winery tour?” 

"I think there was cheese and crackers, too,” Stheno said helpfully. 
"Though Bargain Mart has a much better deal.” 

Polybotes ripped an oak tree out of the ground and threw it into the 
valley. “Cyclopes! I tell you, Stheno, when I destroy Neptune and take over 
the oceans, we will renegotiate the Cyclopes' labor contract. Ma Gasket 
will learn her placelNow, what news from the north?” 

“The demigods have left for Alaska,” Stheno said. "They fly straight to 
their death. Ah, small 'd' death, I mean. Not our prisoner Death. Although, I 
suppose they're flying to him too.” 

Polybotes growled. “Alcyoneus had better spare the son of Neptune 
as he promised. I want that one chained at my feet, so I can kill him when 
the time is ripe. His blood shall water the stones of Mount Olympus and 
wake the Earth Mother! What word from the Amazons?” 

“Only silence,” Stheno said. “We do not yet know the winner of last 
night’s duel, but it is only a matter of time before Otrera prevails and 
comes to our aid.” 

“Hmm.” Polybotes absently scratched some vipers out of his hair. 
"Perhaps it’s just as well we wait, then. Tomorrow at sundown is Fortuna's 
Feast. By then, we must invade — Amazons or no. In the meantime, dig in! 
We set up camp here, on high ground.” 




"Yes, great one!” Stheno announced to the troops: “Puppiesin- 
Blankets for everyone!” 

The monsters cheered. 

Polybotes spread his hands in front of him, taking in the valley like a 
panoramic picture. “Yes, blow your little horns, demigods. Soon, the legacy 
of Rome will be destroyed for the last time!” 

The dream faded. 

Percy woke with a jolt as the plane started its descent. 

Hazel laid her hand on his shoulder. “Sleep okay?” 

Percy sat up groggily. “How long was I out?” 

Frank stood in the aisle, wrapping his spear and new bow in his ski 
bag. “A few hours,” he said. “We're almost there.” 

Percy looked out the window. A glittering inlet of the sea snaked 
between snowy mountains. In the distance, a city was carved out of the 
wilderness, surrounded by lush green forestson one side and icy black 
beaches on the other. 

“Welcome to Alaska,” Hazel said. “We’re beyond the help of the 
gods.” 




X X X V 1 1 1 



PERCY 



The pilot said the plane couldn’t wait for them, but that was okay with 
Percy. If they survived till the next day, he hoped they could find a different 
way back — anything but a plane. 

He should’ve been depressed. He was stuck in Alaska, the giant’s 
home territory, out of contact with his old friends just as his memories were 
coming back. He had seen an image of Polybotes’s army about to invade 
Camp Jupiter. He’d learned that the giants planned to use him as some 
kind of blood sacrifice to awaken Gaea. Plus, tomorrow evening was the 
Feast of Fortuna. He, Frank, and Hazel had an impossible task to 
complete before then. At best, they would unleash Death, who might take 
Percy’s two friends to the Underworld. Not much to look forward to. 

Still, Percy felt strangely invigorated. His dream of Tyson had lifted his 
spirits. He remembered Tyson, his brother. They’d fought together, 
celebrated victories, shared good times at 

Camp Half-Blood. He remembered his home, and that gave him a 
new determination to succeed. He was fighting for two camps now — two 
families. 

Juno had stolen his memory and sent him to Camp Jupiter for a 
reason. He understood that now. He still wanted to punch her in her godly 
face, but at least he got her reasoning. If the two camps could work 
together, they stood a chance of stopping their mutual enemies. 
Separately, both camps were doomed. 

There were other reasons Percy wanted to save Camp Jupiter. 
Reasons he didn’t dare put into words — not yet, anyway. Suddenly he saw 



a future for himself and for Annabeth that he'd never imagined before. 

As they took a taxi into downtown Anchorage, Percy told Frank and 
Hazel about his dreams. They looked anxious but not surprised when he 
told them about the giant’s army closing in on camp. 

Frank choked when he heard about Tyson. “You have a half-brother 
who's a Cyclops?” 

“Sure,” Percy said. “Which makes him your great-great-great — ” 

"Please.” Frank covered his ears. “Enough.” 

"As long as he can get Ella to camp,” Hazel said. “I’m worried about 
her.” 

Percy nodded. He was still thinking about the lines of prophecy the 
harpy had recited — about the son of Neptune drowning, and the mark of 
Athena burning through Rome. 

He wasn't sure what the first part meant, but he was starting to have an 
idea about the second. He tried to set the question aside. He had to 
survive this quest first. 

The taxi turned on Highway One, which looked more like a small street 
to Percy, and took them north toward downtown. It was late afternoon, but 
the sun was still high in the sky. 

“I can't believe how much this place has grown,” Hazel muttered. 

The taxi driver grinned in the rearview mirror. “Been a long time since 
you visited, miss?” 

"About seventy years,” Hazel said. 

The driver slid the glass partition closed and drove on in silence. 

According to Hazel, almost none of the buildings were the same, but 
she pointed out features of the landscape: the vast forests ringing the city, 
the cold, gray waters of Cook Inlet tracing the north edge of town, and the 
Chugach Mountains rising grayish-blue in the distance, capped with snow 
even in June. Percy had never smelled air this clean before. The town itself 
had a weather-beaten look to it, with closed stores, rusted-out cars, and 
worn apartment complexes lining the road, but it was still beautiful. Lakes 
and huge stretches of woods cut through the middle. The arctic sky was an 
amazing combination of turquoise and gold. 

Then there were the giants. Dozens of bright-blue men, each thirty feet 




tall with gray frosty hair, were wading through the forests, fishing in the bay, 
and striding across the mountains. The mortals didn’t seem to notice them. 
The taxi passed within a few yards of one who was sitting at the edge of a 
lake washing his feet, but the driver didn't panic. 

"Urn...” Frank pointed at the blue guy. 

“Hyperboreans,” Percy said. He was amazed he remembered that 
name. "Northern giants. I fought some when Kronos invaded Manhattan.” 
“Wait,” Frank said. “When \Mio did i V?af?” 

“Long story. But these guys look. . . I don't know, peaceful." 

"They usually are,” Hazel agreed. “I remember them. They're 
everywhere in Alaska, like bears.” 

“Bears?” Frank said nervously. 

“The giants are invisible to mortals," Hazel said. “They never bothered 
me, though one almost stepped on me by accident once.” 

That sounded fairly bothersome to Percy, but the taxi kept driving. 
None of the giants paid them any attention. One stood right at the 
intersection of Northern Lights Road, straddling the highway, and they 
drove between his legs. The Hyperborean was cradling a Native American 
totem pole wrapped in furs, humming to it like a baby. If the guy hadn't 
been the size of a building, he would've been almost cute. 

The taxi drove through downtown, past a bunch of tourists’ shops 
advertising furs, Native American art, and gold. Percy hoped Hazel 
wouldn't get agitated and make the jewelry shops explode. 

As the driver turned and headed toward the seashore, Hazel knocked 
on the glass partition. “Here is good. Can you let us out?” 

They paid the driver and stepped onto Fourth Street. Compared to 
Vancouver, downtown Anchorage was tiny — more like a college campus 
than a city, but Hazel looked amazed. 

“It’s huge ,” she said. “That — that's where the Gitchell Hotel used to be. 
My mom and I stayed there our first week in Alaska. And they've moved 
City Hall. It used to be there.” 

She led them in a daze for a few blocks. They didn’t really have a plan 
beyond finding the fastest way to the Hubbard Glacier, but Percy smelled 
something cooking nearby — sausage, maybe? He realized he hadn't 




eaten since that morning at Grandma Zhang's. 

"Food,” he said. “Come on.” 

They found a cafe right by the beach. It was bustling with people, but 
they scored a table at the window and perused the menus. 

Frank whooped with delight. “Twenty-four-hour breakfast!” 

“It’s, like, dinnertime,” Percy said, though he couldn’t tell from looking 
outside. The sun was so high, it could've been noon. 

“I love breakfast,” Frank said. “I’d eat breakfast, breakfast, and 
breakfast if I could. Though, um, I’m sure the food here isn’t as good as 
Hazel's.” 

Hazel elbowed him, but her smile was playful. 

Seeing them like that made Percy happy. Those two definitely needed 
to get together. But it also made him sad. He thought about Annabeth, and 
wondered if he'd live long enough to see her again. 

Think positive, he told himself. 

"You know,” he said, “breakfast sounds great.” 

They all ordered massive plates of eggs, pancakes, and reindeer 
sausage, though Frank looked a little worried about the reindeer. "You 
think it’s okay that we're eating Rudolph?” 

"Dude,” Percy said, “I could eat Prancer and Blitzen, too. I'm hungry." 

The food was excellent. Percy had never seen anyone eat as fast as 
Frank. The red-nosed reindeer did not stand a chance. 

Between bites of blueberry pancake, Hazel drew a squiggly curve and 
an X on her napkin. “So this is what I'm thinking. We're here.” She tapped 
X. "Anchorage.” 

“It looks like a seagull's face,” Percy said. “And we're the eye.” 

Hazel glared at him. “It’s a map, Percy. Anchorage is at the top of this 
sliver of ocean, Cook Inlet. There’s a big peninsula of land below us, and 
my old home town, Seward, is at the bottom of the peninsula, here." She 
drew another X at the base of the seagull’s throat. “That's the closest town 
to the Hubbard Glacier. We could go around by sea, I guess, but it would 
take forever. We don't have that kind of time.” 

Frank polished off the last of his Rudolph. “But land is dangerous,” he 




said. “Land means Gaea.” 

Hazel nodded. “I don’t see that we’ve got much choice, though. We 
could have asked our pilot to fly us down, but I don’t know... his plane might 
be too big for the little Seward airport. And if we chartered another plane 

“No more planes,” Percy said. "Please.” 

Hazel held up her hand in a placating gesture. “It’s okay. There’s a 
train that goes from here to Seward. We might be able to catch one 
tonight. It only takes a couple of hours.” 

She drew a dotted line between the two X's. 

"You just cut off the seagull's head,” Percy noted. 

Hazel sighed. “It’s the train line. Look, from Seward, the Hubbard 
Glacier is down here somewhere.” She tapped the lower right corner of her 
napkin. “That's where Alcyoneus is.” 

"But you're not sure how far?” Frank asked. 

Hazel frowned and shook her head. “I'm pretty sure it’s only accessible 
by boat or plane.” 

“Boat,” Percy said immediately. 

“Fine,” Hazel said. “It shouldn't be too far from Seward. If we can get to 
Seward safely.” 

Percy gazed out the window. So much to do, and only twenty-four 
hours left. This time tomorrow, the Feast of Fortuna would be starting. 
Unless they unleashed Death and made it back to camp, the giant’s army 
would flood into the valley. The Romans would be the main course at a 
monster dinner. 

Across the street, a frosty black sand beach led down to the sea, 
which was as smooth as steel. The ocean here felt different — still powerful, 
but freezing, slow, and primal. No gods controlled that water, at least no 
gods Percy knew. Neptune wouldn’t be able to protect him. Percy 
wondered if he could even manipulate water here, or breathe underwater. 

A Hyperborean giant lumbered across the street. Nobody in the cafe 
noticed. The giant stepped into the bay, cracking the ice under his sandals, 
and thrust his hands in the water. He brought out a killer whale in one fist. 
Apparently that wasn’t what he wanted, because he threw the whale back 




and kept wading. 

“Good breakfast,” Frank said. "Who's ready for a train ride?” 

The station wasn't far. They were just in time to buy tickets for the last train 
south. As his friends climbed on board, Percy said, "Be with you in a sec,” 
and ran back into the station. 

He got change from the gift shop and stood in front of the pay phone. 

He'd never used a pay phone before. They were strange antiques to 
him, like his mom's turntable or his teacher Chiron's Frank Sinatra 
cassette tapes. He wasn't sure how many coins it would take, or if he could 
even make the call go through, assuming he remembered the number 
correctly. 

Sally Jackson, he thought. 

That was his mom's name. And he had a stepdad...Paul. 

What did they think had happened to Percy? Maybe they had already 
held a memorial service. As near as he could figure, he’d lost seven 
months of his life. Sure, most of that had been during the school year, but 
still.. .no? cool. 

He picked up the receiver and punched in a New York number — his 
mom's apartment. Voice mail. Percy should have figured. It would be like, 
midnight in New York. They wouldn't recognize this number. 

Hearing Paul's voice on the recording hit Percy in the gut so hard, he 
could barely speak at the tone. 

“Mom,” he said. “Hey, I’m alive. Her a put me to sleep for a while, and 
then she took my memory, and...” His voice faltered. How he could 
possibly explain all this? "Anyway, I’m okay. I’m sorry. I’m on a quest — ” He 
winced. He shouldn't have said that. His mom knew all about quests, and 
now she'd be worried. “I’ll make it home. I promise. Love you.” 

He put down the receiver. He stared at the phone, hoping it would ring 
back. The train whistle sounded. The conductor shouted, “All aboard.” 

Percy ran. He made it just as they were pulling up the steps, then 
climbed to the top of the double-decker car and slid into his seat. 

Hazel frowned. “You okay?” 




“Yeah,” he croaked. “Just.. .made a call.” 

She and Frank seemed to get that. They didn't ask for details. 

Soon they were heading south along the coast, watching the 
landscape go by. Percy tried to think about the quest, but for an ADHD kid 
like him, the train wasn't the easiest place to concentrate. 

Cool things kept happening outside. Bald eagles soared overhead. 
The train raced over bridges and along cliffs where glacial waterfalls 
tumbled thousands of feet down the rocks. They passed forests buried in 
snowdrifts, big artillery guns (to set off small avalanches and prevent 
uncontrolled ones, Hazel explained), and lakes so clear, they reflected the 
mountains like mirrors, so the world looked upside down. 

Brown bears lumbered through the meadows. Hyperborean giants 
kept appearing in the strangest places. One was lounging in a lake like it 
was a hot tub. Another was using a pine tree as a toothpick. A third sat in a 
snowdrift, playing with two live moose like they were action figures. The 
train was full of tourists ohhing and ahhing and snapping pictures, but 
Percy felt sorry they couldn't see the Hyperboreans. They were missing the 
really good shots. 

Meanwhile, Frank studied a map of Alaska that he'd found in the seat 
pocket. He located Hubbard Glacier, which looked discouragingly far away 
from Seward. He kept running his finger along the coastline, frowning with 
concentration. 

“What are you thinking?” Percy asked. 

“Just.. .possibilities,” Frank said. 

Percy didn't know what that meant, but he let it go. 

After about an hour, Percy started to relax. They bought hot chocolate 
from the dining car. The seats were warm and comfortable, and he thought 
about taking a nap. 

Then a shadow passed overhead. Tourists murmured in excitement 
and started taking pictures. 

“Eagle!” one yelled. 

“Eagle?” said another. 

“Huge eagle!” said a third. 

“That's no eagle,” Frank said. 




Percy looked up just in time to see the creature make a second pass. 
It was definitely larger than an eagle, with a sleek black body the size of a 
Labrador retriever. Its wingspan was at least ten feet across. 

“There's another one!” Frank pointed. “Strike that. Three, four. Okay, 
we're in trouble.” 

The creatures circled the train like vultures, delighting the tourists. 
Percy wasn't delighted. The monsters had glowing red eyes, sharp beaks, 
and vicious talons. 

Percy felt for his pen in his pocket. "Those things look familiar....” 

“Seattle,” Hazel said. "The Amazons had one in a cage. They’re — ” 

Then several things happened at once. The emergency brake 
screeched, pitching them forward. Tourists screamed and tumbled through 
the aisles. The monsters swooped down, shattering the glass roof of the 
car, and the entire train toppled off the rails. 




XXXIX 



PERCY 



Percy went weightless. 

His vision blurred. Claws grabbed his arms and lifted him into the air. 
Below, train wheels squealed and metal crashed. Glass shattered. 
Passengers screamed. 

When his eyesight cleared, he saw the beast that was carrying him 
aloft. It had the body of a panther — sleek, black, and feline — with the wings 
and head of an eagle. Its eyes glowed blood-red. 

Percy squirmed. The monster’s front talons were wrapped around his 
arms like steel bands. He couldn't free himself or reach his sword. He rose 
higher and higher in the cold wind. Percy had no idea where the monster 
was taking him, but he was pretty sure he wouldn’t like it when he got there. 

He yelled — mostly out of frustration. Then something whistled by his 
ear. An arrow sprouted from the monster’s neck. The creature shrieked 
and let go. 

Percy fell, crashing through tree branches until he slammed into a 
snowbank. He groaned, looking up at a massive pine tree he’d just 
shredded. 

He managed to stand. Nothing seemed broken. Frank stood to his left, 
shooting down the creatures as fast as he could. Hazel was at his back, 
swinging her sword at any monster that came close, but there were too 
many swarming around them — at least a dozen. 

Percy drew Riptide. He sliced the wing off one monster and sent it 
spiraling into a tree, then sliced through another that burst into dust. But the 
defeated ones began to re-form immediately. 



“What are these things?” he yelled. 

“Gryphons!” Hazel said. “We have to get them away from the train!” 

Percy saw what she meant. The train cars had fallen over, and their 
roofs had shattered. Tourists were stumbling around in shock. Percy didn't 
see anybody seriously injured, but the gryphons were swooping toward 
anything that moved. The only thing keeping them away from the mortals 
was a glowing gray warrior in camouflage — Frank's pet spartus. 

Percy glanced over and noticed Frank's spear was gone. “Used your 
last charge?” 

“Yeah.” Frank shot another gryphon out of the sky. “I had to help the 
mortals. The spear just dissolved.” 

Percy nodded. Part of him was relieved. He didn’t like the skeleton 
warrior. Part of him was disappointed, because that was one less weapon 
they had at their disposal. But he didn’t fault Frank. Frank had done the 
right thing. 

“Let’s move the fight!” Percy said. “Away from the tracks!” They 
stumbled through the snow, smacking and slicing gryphons that re-formed 
from dust every time they were killed. 

Percy had had no experience with gryphons. He'd always imagined 
them as huge noble animals, like lions with wings, but these things 
reminded him more of vicious pack hunters — flying hyenas. 

About fifty yards from the tracks, the trees gave way to an open marsh. 
The ground was so spongy and icy, Percy felt like he was racing across 
Bubble Wrap. Frank was running out of arrows. Hazel was breathing hard. 
Percy's own sword swings were getting slower. He realized they were alive 
only because the gryphons weren't trying to kill them. The gryphons wanted 
to pick them up and carry them off somewhere. 

Maybe to their nests, Percy thought. 

Then he tripped over something in the tall grass — a circle of scrap 
metal about the size of a tractor tire. It was a massive bird’s nest — a 
gryphon’s nest — the bottom littered with old pieces of jewelry, an Imperial 
gold dagger, a dented centurion's badge, and two pumpkin-sized eggs 
that looked like real gold. 

Percy jumped into the nest. He pressed his sword tip against one of 




the eggs. "Back off, or I break it!” 

The gryphons squawked angrily. They buzzed around the nest and 
snapped their beaks, but they didn’t attack. Hazel and Frank stood back to 
back with Percy, their weapons ready. 

“Gryphons collect gold," Hazel said. “They're crazy for it. Look — more 
nests over there.” 

Frank nocked his last arrow. “So if these are their nests, where were 
they trying to take Percy? That thing was flying away with him.” 

Percy’s arms still throbbed where the gryphon had grabbed him. 
“Alcyoneus,” he guessed. “Maybe they're working for him. Are these things 
smart enough to take orders?” 

“I don’t know,” Hazel said. “I never fought them when I lived here. I just 
read about them at camp.” 

"Weaknesses?” Frank asked. “Please tell me they have weaknesses.” 

Hazel scowled. “Horses. They hate horses — natural enemies, or 
something. I wish Arion was here!” 

The gryphons shrieked. They swirled around the nest with their red 
eyes glowing. 

“Guys,” Frank said nervously, “I see legion relics in this nest.” 

“I know,” Percy said. 

“That means other demigods died here, or — ” 

“Frank, it’ll be okay,” Percy promised. 

One of the gryphons dived in. Percy raised his sword, ready to stab 
the egg. The monster veered off, but the other gryphons were losing their 
patience. Percy couldn't keep this standoff going much longer. 

He glanced around the fields, desperately trying to formulate a plan. 
About a quarter mile away, a Hyperborean giant was sitting in the bog, 
peacefully picking mud from between his toes with a broken tree trunk. 

“I've got an idea,” Percy said. “Hazel — all the gold in these nests. Do 
you think you can use it to cause a distraction?” 

“I — I guess.” 

“Just give us enough time for a head start. When I say go, run for that 
giant.” 




Frank gaped at him. “You want us to run tomrda giant?” 

“Trust me,” Percy said. “Ready? Go!” 

Hazel thrust her hand upward. From a dozen nests across the marsh, 
golden objects shot into the air — jewelry, weapons, coins, gold nuggets, 
and most importantly, gryphon eggs. The monsters shrieked and flew after 
their eggs, frantic to save them. 

Percy and his friends ran. Their feet splashed and crunched through 
the frozen marsh. Percy poured on speed, but he could hear the gryphons 
closing behind them, and now the monsters were really angry. 

The giant hadn’t noticed the commotion yet. He was inspecting his 
toes for mud, his face sleepy and peaceful, his white whiskers glistening 
with ice crystals. Around his neck was a necklace of found objects — 
garbage cans, car doors, moose antlers, camping equipment, even a 
toilet. Apparently he'd been cleaning up the wilderness. 

Percy hated to disturb him, especially since it meant taking shelter 
under the giant’s thighs, but they didn't have much choice. 

“Under!” he told his friends. “Crawl under!” 

They scrambled between the massive blue legs and flattened 
themselves in the mud, crawling as close as they could to his loincloth. 
Percy tried to breathe through his mouth, but it wasn't the most pleasant 
hiding spot. 

“What's the plan?” Frank hissed. "Get flattened by a blue rump?” 

“Lay low,” Percy said. “Only move if you have to.” 

The gryphons arrived in a wave of angry beaks, talons, and wings, 
swarming around the giant, trying to get under his legs. 

The giant rumbled in surprise. He shifted. Percy had to roll to avoid 
getting crushed by his large hairy rear. The Hyperborean grunted, a little 
more irritated. He swatted at the gryphons, but they squawked in outrage 
and began pecking at his legs and hands. 

“Ruh?” the giant bellowed. “Ruh!” 

He took a deep breath and blew out a wave of cold air. Even under the 
protection of the giant’s legs, Percy could feel the temperature drop. The 
gryphons' shrieking stopped abruptly, replaced by the thunk, thunk, thunk 
of heavy objects hitting the mud. 




“Come on,” Percy told his friends. “Carefully.” 

They squirmed out from under the giant. All around the marsh, trees 
were glazed with frost. A huge swath of the bog was covered in fresh snow. 
Frozen gryphons stuck out of the ground like feathery Popsicle sticks, their 
wings still spread, beaks open, eyes wide with surprise. 

Percy and his friends scrambled away, trying to keep out of the giant’s 
vision, but the big guy was too busy to notice them. He was trying to figure 
out how to string a frozen gryphon onto his necklace. 

“Percy...” Hazel wiped the ice and mud from her face. “How did you 
know the giant could do that?” 

“I almost got hit by Hyperborean breath once,” he said. “We'd better 
move. The gryphons won't stay frozen forever.” 




X L 



PERCY 



T hey walked overland for about an hour, keeping the train tracks in sight 
but staying in the cover of the trees as much as possible. Once they heard 
a helicopter flying in the direction of the train wreck. Twice they heard the 
screech of gryphons, but they sounded a long way off. 

As near as Percy could figure, it was about midnight when the sun 
finally set. It got cold in the woods. The stars were so thick, Percy was 
tempted to stop and gawk at them. Then the northern lights cranked up. 
They reminded Percy of his mom’s gas stovetop back home, when she 
had the flame on low — waves of ghostly blue flames rippling back and 
forth. 

“That’s amazing,” Frank said. 

“Bears,” Hazel pointed. Sure enough, a couple of brown bears were 
lumbering in the meadow a few hundred feet away, their coats gleaming in 
the starlight. “They won’t bother us,” Hazel promised. “Just give them a 
wide berth.” 

Percy and Frank didn’t argue. 

As they trudged on, Percy thought about all the crazy places he’d 
seen. None of them had left him speechless like Alaska. He could see why 
it was a land beyond the gods. Everything here was rough and untamed. 
There were no rules, no prophecies, no destinies — just the harsh 
wilderness and a bunch of animals and monsters. Mortals and demigods 
came here at their own risk. 

Percy wondered if this was what Gaea wanted — for the whole world to 



be like this. He wondered if that would be such a bad thing. 

Then he put the thought aside. Gaea wasn’t a gentle goddess. Percy 
had heard what she planned to do. She wasn’t like the Mother Earth you 
might read about in a children's fairy tale. She was vengeful and violent. If 
she ever woke up fully, she'd destroy human civilization. 

After another couple of hours, they stumbled across a tiny village 
between the railroad tracks and a two-lane road. The city limit sign said: 
MOOSE boss. Standing next to the sign was an actual moose. For a second, 
Percy thought it might be some sort of statue for advertising. Then the 
animal bounded into the woods. 

They passed a couple of houses, a post office, and some trailers. 
Everything was dark and closed up. On the other end of town was a store 
with a picnic table and an old rusted petrol pump in front. 

The store had a hand-painted sign that read: MOOSE pass gas. 

“That's just wrong,” Frank said. 

By silent agreement they collapsed around the picnic table. 

Percy’s feet felt like blocks of ice — very sore blocks of ice. Hazel put 
her head in her hands and passed out, snoring. Frank took out his last 
sodas and some granola bars from the train ride and shared them with 
Percy. 

They ate in silence, watching the stars, until Frank said, “Did you mean 
what you said earlier?” 

Percy looked across the table. "About what?” 

In the starlight, Frank's face might have been alabaster, like an old 
Roman statue. “About.. .being proud that we're related.” 

Percy tapped his granola bar on the table. “Well, let’s see. You single- 
handedly took out three basilisks while I was sipping green tea and wheat 
germ. You held off an army of Laistrygonians so that our plane could take 
off in Vancouver. You saved my life by shooting down that gryphon. And 
you gave up the last charge on your magic spear to help some 
defenseless mortals. You are, hands down, the nicest child of the war god 
I've ever met. ..maybe the only nice one. So what do you think?” 

Frank stared up at the northern lights, still cooking across the stars on 
low heat. “It’s just... I was supposed to be in charge of this quest, the 




centurion, and all. I feel like you guys have had to carry me.” 

“Not true,” Percy said. 

“I’m supposed to have these powers I haven’t figured out how to use,” 
Frank said bitterly. “Now I don’t have a spear, and I’m almost out of arrows. 
And... I'm scared.” 

“I’d be worried if you weren't scared,” Percy said. “We're all scared.” 

"But the Feast of Fortuna is...” Frank thought about it. 

“It’s after midnight, isn’t it? That means it’s June twenty-fourth now. The 
feast starts tonight at sundown. We have to find our way to Hubbard 
Glacier, defeat a giant who is undefeatable in his home territory, and get 
back to Camp Jupiter before they’re overrun — all in less than eighteen 
hours.” 

"And when we free Thanatos,” Percy said, "he might claim your life. 
And Hazel's. Believe me, I've been thinking about it.” 

Frank gazed at Hazel, still snoring lightly. Her face was buried under a 
mass of curly brown hair. 

“She's my best friend,” Frank said. “I lost my mom, my grandmother. ..I 
can't lose her, too.” 

Percy thought about his old life — his mom in New York, Camp Half- 
Blood, Annabeth. He’d lost all of that for eight months. Even now, with the 
memories coming back... he’d never been this far away from home before. 
He'd been to the Underworld and back. He’d faced death dozens of times. 
But sitting at this picnic table, thousands of miles away, beyond the power 
of Olympus, he'd never been so alone — except for Hazel and Frank. 

“I’m not going to lose either of you,” he promised. “I’m not going to let 
that happen. And, Frank, you are a leader. Hazel would say the same thing. 
We need you.” 

Frank lowered his head. He seemed lost in thought. Finally he leaned 
forward until his head bumped the picnic table. He started to snore in 
harmony with Hazel. 

Percy sighed. “Another inspiring speech from Jackson,” he said to 
himself. "Rest up, Frank. Big day ahead.” 




At dawn, the store opened up. The owner was a little surprised to find three 
teenagers crashed out on his picnic table, but when Percy explained that 
they had stumbled away from last night’s train wreck, the guy felt sorry for 
them and treated them to breakfast. He called a friend of his, an Inuit native 
who had a cabin close to Seward. Soon they were rumbling along the road 
in a beat-up Ford pickup that had been new about the time Hazel was 
born. 

Hazel and Frank sat in back. Percy rode up front with the leathery old 
man, who smelled like smoked salmon. He told Percy stories about Bear 
and Raven, the Inuit gods, and all Percy could think was that he hoped he 
didn't meet them. He had enough enemies already. 

The truck broke down a few miles outside Seward. The driver didn't 
seem surprised, as though this happened to him several times a day. He 
said they could wait for him to fix the engine, but since Seward was only a 
few miles away, they decided to walk it. 

By midmorning, they climbed over a rise in the road and saw a small 
bay ringed with mountains. The town was a thin crescent on the right-hand 
shore, with wharves extending into the water and a cruise ship in the 
harbor. 

Percy shuddered. He'd had bad experiences with cruise ships. 

“Seward,” Hazel said. She didn't sound happy to see her old home. 

They'd already lost a lot of time, and Percy didn't like how fast the sun 
was rising. The road curved around the hillside, but it looked like they could 
get to town faster going straight across the meadows. 

Percy stepped off the road. “Come on.” 

The ground was squishy, but he didn’t think much about it until Hazel 
shouted, "Percy, no!” 

His next step went straight through the ground. He sank like a stone 
until the earth closed over his head — and the earth swallowed him. 




X L 1 



HAZEL 



“Your bow!” Hazel shouted. 

Frank didn’t ask questions. He dropped his pack and slipped the bow 
off his shoulder. 

Hazel’s heart raced. She hadn’t thought about this boggy soil — 
muskeg — since before she had died. Now, too late, she remembered the 
dire warnings the locals had given her. Marshy silt and decomposed plants 
made a surface that looked completely solid, but it was even worse than 
quicksand, it could be twenty feet deep or more, and impossible to 
escape. 

She tried not to think what would happen if it were deeper than the 
length of the bow. 

“Hold one end,” she told Frank. “Don’t let go.” 

She grabbed the other end, took a deep breath, and jumped into the 
bog. The earth closed over her head. 

Instantly, she was frozen in a memory. 

Not noW. she wanted to scream. Ella said I was done wth blackouts! 

Oh, but my dear, said the voice of Gaea, this is not one of your 
blackouts. This is a gift from me. 

Hazel was back in New Orleans. She and her mother sat in the park 
near their apartment, having a picnic breakfast. She remembered this day. 
She was seven years old. Her mother had just sold Hazel’s first precious 
stone: a small diamond. Neither of them had yet realized Hazel’s curse. 

Queen Marie was in an excellent mood. She had bought orange juice 



for Hazel and champagne for herself, and beignets sprinkled with 
chocolate and powdered sugar. She'd even bought Hazel a new box of 
crayons and a pad of paper. They sat together, Queen Marie humming 
cheerfully while Hazel drew pictures. 

The French Quarter woke up around them, ready for Mardi Gras. Jazz 
bands practiced. Floats were being decorated with fresh-cut flowers. 
Children laughed and chased each other, decked in so many colored 
necklaces they could barely walk. The sunrise turned the sky to red gold, 
and the warm steamy air smelled of magnolias and roses. 

It had been the happiest morning of Hazel's life. 

“You could stay here.” Her mother smiled, but her eyes were blank 
white. The voice was Gaea's. 

"This is fake,” Hazel said. 

She tried to get up, but the soft bed of grass made her lazy and 
sleepy. The smell of baked bread and melting chocolate was intoxicating. It 
was the morning of Mardi Gras, and the world seemed full of possibilities. 
Hazel could almost believe she had a bright future. 

“What is real?” asked Gaea, speaking through her mother's face. “Is 
your second life real, Hazel? You're supposed to be dead. Is it real that 
you're sinking into a bog, suffocating?” 

“Let me help my friend!” Hazel tried to force herself back to reality. She 
could imagine her hand clenched on the end of the bow, but even that was 
starting to feel fuzzy. Her grip was loosening. The smell of magnolias and 
roses was overpowering. 

Her mother offered her a beignet. 

No, Hazel thought. This isn't my mother. This is Gaea tricking me. 

"You want your old life back,” Gaea said. “I can give you that. This 
moment can last for years. You can grow up in New Orleans, and your 
mother will adore you. You’ll never have to deal with the burden of your 
curse. You can be with Sammy — ” 

“It’s an illusion!” Hazel said, choking on the sweet scent of flowers. 

“You are an illusion, Hazel Levesque. You were only brought back to 
life because the gods have a task for you. I may have used you, but Nico 
used you and lied about it. You should be glad I captured him.” 




“Captured?” A feeling of panic rose in Hazel’s chest. “What do you 
mean?” 

Gaea smiled, sipping her champagne. “The boy should have known 
better than to search for the Doors. But no matter — it’s not really your 
concern. Once you release Thanatos, you’ll be thrown back into the 
Underworld to rot forever. Frank and Percy won’t stop that from happening. 
Would real friends ask you to give up your life? Tell me who is lying, and 
who tells you the truth.” 

Hazel started to cry. Bitterness welled up inside her. She’d lost her life 
once. She didn't want to die again. 

“That's right,” Gaea purred. “You were destined to marry Sammy. Do 
you know what happened to him after you died in Alaska? He grew up and 
moved to Texas. He married and had a family. But he never forgot you. He 
always wondered why you disappeared. He’s dead now — a heart attack in 
the nineteen-sixties. The life you could’ve had together always haunted 
him.” 

“Stop it!” Hazel screamed. "You took that from me!” 

"And you can have it again,” Gaea said. “I have you in my embrace, 
Hazel. You’ll die anyway. If you give up, at least I can make it pleasant for 
you. Forget saving Percy Jackson. He belongs to me. I'll keep him safe in 
the earth until I'm ready to use him. You can have an entire life in your final 
moments — you can grow up, marry Sammy. All you have to do is let go.” 

Hazel tightened her grip on the bow. Below her, something grabbed 
her ankles, but she didn’t panic. She knew it was Percy, suffocating, 
desperately grasping for a chance at life. 

Hazel glared at the goddess. “I’ll never cooperate with you! LET — US 
—GO!” 

Her mother's face dissolved. The New Orleans morning melted into 
darkness. Hazel was drowning in mud, one hand on the bow, Percy’s 
hands around her ankles, deep in the darkness. Hazel wiggled the end of 
the bow frantically. Frank pulled her up with such force it nearly popped her 
arm out of the socket. 

When she opened her eyes, she was lying in the grass, covered in 
muck. Percy sprawled at her feet, coughing and spitting mud. 




Frank hovered over them, yelling, “Oh, gods! Oh, gods! Oh, gods!” 

He yanked some extra clothes from his bag and started toweling off 
Hazel's face, but it didn't do much good. He dragged Percy farther from 
the muskeg. 

“You were down there so long!” Frank cried. “I didn’t think — oh, gods, 
don't ever do something like that again!” 

He wrapped Hazel in a bear hug. 

“Can't — breathe,” she choked out. 

“Sorry!” Frank went back to toweling and fussing over them. Finally he 
got them to the side of the road, where they sat and shivered and spit up 
mud clods. 

Hazel couldn’t feel her hands. She wasn’t sure if she was cold or in 
shock, but she managed to explain about the muskeg, and the vision she'd 
seen while she was under. Not the part about Sammy — that was still too 
painful to say out loud — but she told them about Gaea's offer of a fake life, 
and the goddess’ claim that she’d captured her brother Nico. Hazel didn't 
want to keep that to herself. She was afraid the despair would overwhelm 
her. 

Percy rubbed his shoulders. His lips were blue. "You — you saved me, 
Hazel. We'll figure out what happened to Nico, I promise.” 

Hazel squinted at the sun, which was now high in the sky. 

The warmth felt good, but it didn’t stop her trembling. “Does it seem 
like Gaea let us go too easily?” 

Percy plucked a mud clod from his hair. “Maybe she still wants us as 
pawns. Maybe she was just saying things to mess with your mind.” 

“She knew what to say,” Hazel agreed. “She knew how to get to me.” 
Frank put his jacket around her shoulders. "This is a real life. You know 
that, right? We're not going to let you die again.” 

He sounded so determined. Hazel didn't want to argue, but she didn't 
see how Frank could stop Death. She pressed her coat pocket, where 
Frank's half-burned firewood was still securely wrapped. She wondered 
what would've happened to him if she’d sunk in the mud forever. Maybe 
that would have saved him. Fire couldn't have gotten to the wood down 
there. 




She would have made any sacrifice to keep Frank safe. Perhaps she 
hadn't always felt that strongly, but Frank had trusted her with his life. Fie 
believed in her. She couldn't bear the thought of any harm coming to him. 

She glanced at the rising sun.... Time was running out. She thought 
about Hylla, the Amazon Queen back in Seattle. Hylla would have dueled 
Otrera two nights in a row by now, assuming she had survived. She was 
counting on Flazel to release Death. 

She managed to stand. The wind coming off Resurrection Bay was 
just as cold as she remembered. “We should get going. We’re losing 
time.” 

Percy gazed down the road. His lips were returning to their normal 
color. “Any hotels or something where we could clean off? I mean.. .hotels 
that accept mud people?” 

“I’m not sure,” Flazel admitted. 

She looked at the town below and couldn't believe how much it had 
grown since 1942. The main harbor had moved east as the town had 
expanded. Most of the buildings were new to her, but the grid of downtown 
streets seemed familiar. She thought she recognized some warehouses 
along the shore. “I might know a place we can freshen up.” 




X L I 1 



HAZEL 



When they got into town, Hazel followed the same route she'd used 
seventy years ago — the last night of her life, when she'd come home from 
the hills and found her mother missing. 

She led her friends along Third Avenue. The railroad station was still 
there. The big white two-story Seward Hotel was still in business, though it 
had expanded to twice its old size. They thought about stopping there, but 
Hazel didn’t think it would be a good idea to traipse into the lobby covered 
in mud, nor was she sure the hotel would give a room to three minors. 

Instead, they turned toward the shoreline. Hazel couldn’t believe it, but 
her old home was still there, leaning over the water on barnacle-encrusted 
piers. The roof sagged. The walls were perforated with holes like buckshot. 
The door was boarded-up, and a hand-painted sign read: rooms 
STORAGE A VALABLE. 

“Come on,” she said. 

“Uh, you sure it’s safe?” Frank asked. 

Hazel found an open window and climbed inside. Her friends followed. 
The room hadn’t been used in a long time. Their feet kicked up dust that 
swirled in the buckshot beams of sunlight. Mouldering cardboard boxes 
were stacked along the walls. Their faded labels read: Greeting Cards, 
Assorted Seasonal. Why several hundred boxes of season’s greetings 
hadwound up crumbling to dust in a warehouse in Alaska, Hazel had no 
idea, but it felt like a cruel joke: as if the cards were for all the holidays 
she'd never gotten to celebrate — decades of Christmases, Easters, 



birthdays, Valentine's Days. 

“It’s warmer in here, at least,” Frank said. “Guess no running water? 
Maybe I can go shopping. I'm not as muddy as you guys. I could find us 
some clothes.” 

Hazel only half heard him. 

She climbed over a stack of boxes in the corner that used to be her 
sleeping area. An old sign was propped against the wall: gold 
prospecting supplies. She thought she'dfind a bare wall behind it, but 
when she moved the sign, most of her photos and drawings were still 
pinned there. The sign must have protected them from sunlight and the 
elements. They seemed not to have aged. Her crayon drawings of New 
Orleans looked so childish. Had she really made them? Her mother stared 
out at her from one photograph, smiling in front of her business sign: queen 
IWRIE’S GRIS-GRIS — CHARMS SOLD, FORTUNES TOLD. 

Next to that was a photo of Sammy at the carnival. He was frozen in 
time with his crazy grin, his curly black hair, and those beautiful eyes. If 
Gaea was telling the truth, Sammy had been dead for over forty years. Had 
he really remembered Hazel all that time? Or had he forgotten the peculiar 
girl he used to go riding with — the girl who shared one kiss and a birthday 
cupcake with him before disappearing forever? 

Frank's fingers hovered over the photo. “Who...?” He saw that she 
was crying and clamped back his question. “Sorry, Hazel. This must be 
really hard. Do you want some time — ” 

“No,” she croaked. “No, it’s fine.” 

"Is that your mother?" Percy pointed to the photo of QueenMarie. “She 
looks like you. She's beautiful.” 

Then Percy studied the picture of Sammy. “Who is that?” 

Hazel didn’t understand why he looked so spooked. “That's... that's 
Sammy. He was my — uh — friend from New Orleans.” She forced herself 
not to look at Frank. 

“I've seen him before,” Percy said. 

“You couldn’t have," Hazel said. “That was in 1941. He's. ..he's 
probably dead now.” 

Percy frowned. “I guess. Still...” He shook his head, like the thought 




was too uncomfortable. 

Frank cleared his throat. “Look, we passed a store on the last block. 
We've got a little money left. Maybe I should go get you guys some food 
and clothes and — I don’t know — a hundred boxes of wet wipes or 
something?” 

Hazel put the gold prospecting sign back over her mementos. She felt 
guilty even looking at that old picture of Sammy, with Frank trying to be so 
sweet and supportive. It didn't do her any good to think about her old life. 
“That would be great,” she said. “You're the best, Frank.” 

The floorboards creaked under his feet. “Well... I'm the only one not 
completely covered in mud, anyway. Be back soon.” 

Once he was gone, Percy and Hazel made temporary camp. They 
took off their jackets and tried to scrape off the mud. They found some old 
blankets in a crate and used them to clean up. They discovered that boxes 
of greeting cards made pretty good places to rest if you arranged them like 
mattresses. 

Percy set his sword on the floor where it glowed with a faint bronze 
light. Then he stretched out on a bed of Merry Christmas 1982. 

"Thank you for saving me,” he said. “I should've told you that earlier.” 
Hazel shrugged. “You would have done the same for me.” 

“Yes,” he agreed. “But when I was down in the mud, I remembered that 
line from Ella's prophecy — about the son of Neptune drowning. I thought. 
This is what it means. I'm drowning in the earth.' I was sure I was dead.” 

His voice quavered like it had his first day at Camp Jupiter, when 
Hazel had shown him the shrine of Neptune. Back then she had wondered 
if Percy was the answer to her problems — the descendant of Neptune that 
Pluto had promised would take away her curse someday. Percy had 
seemed so intimidating and powerful, like a real hero. 

Only now, she knew that Frank was a descendant of 
Neptune, too. Frank wasn’t the most impressive-looking hero in the 
world, but he'd trusted her with his life. He tried so hard to protect her. Even 
his clumsiness was endearing. 

She'd never felt more confused — and since she had spent her whole 
life confused, that was saying a lot. 




"Percy,” she said, “that prophecy might not have been complete. Frank 
thought Ella was remembering a burned page. Maybe you’ll drown 
someone else.” 

He looked at her cautiously. “You think so?” 

Hazel felt strange reassuring him. He was so much older, and more in 
command. But she nodded confidently. "You're going to make it back 
home. You're going to see your girlfriend Annabeth.” 

“You'll make it back, too, Hazel,” he insisted. “We're not going to let 
anything happen to you. You’re too valuable to me, to the camp, and 
especially to Frank.” 

Hazel picked up an old valentine. The lacy white paper fell apart in her 
hands. “I don’t belong in this century. Nico only brought me back so I could 
correct my mistakes, maybe get into Elysium.” 

"There's more to your destiny than that,” he said. “We’re supposed to 
fight Gaea together. I'm going to need you at my side way longer than just 
today. And Frank — you can see the guy is crazy about you. This life is 
worth fighting for, Hazel.” 

She closed her eyes. "Please, don't get my hopes up. I can't — ” 

The window creaked open. Frank climbed in, triumphantly holding 
some shopping bags. "Success!” 

He showed off his prizes. From a hunting store, he’d gotten a new 
quiver of arrows for himself, some rations, and a coil of rope. 

“For the next time we run across muskeg,” he said. 

From a local tourist shop, he had bought three sets of fresh clothes, 
some towels, some soap, some bottled water, and, yes, a huge box of wet 
wipes. It wasn’t exactly a hot shower, but Hazel ducked behind a wall of 
greeting card boxes to clean up and change. Soon she was feeling much 
better. 

This is your last day, she reminded herself. Dontgettoo comfortable. 

The Feast of Fortuna — all the luck that happened today, good or bad, 
was supposed to be an omen of the entire year to come. One way or 
another, their quest would end this evening. 

She slipped the piece of driftwood into her new coatpocket. 
Somehow, she'd have to make sure it stayed safe, no matter what 




happened to her. She could bear her own death as long as her friends 
survived. 

“So,” she said. “Now we find a boat to Hubbard Glacier.” 

She tried to sound confident, but it wasn’t easy. She wished Arion 
were still with her. She’d much rather ride into battle on that beautiful horse. 
Ever since they'd left Vancouver, she'd been calling to him in her thoughts, 
hoping he would hear her and come find her, but that was just wishful 
thinking. 

Frank patted his stomach. “If we're going to battle to the death, I want 
lunch first. I found the perfect place.” 

Frank led them to a shopping plaza near the wharf, where an old railway 
car had been converted to a diner. Hazel had no memory of the place from 
the 1940s, but the food smelled amazing. While Frank and Percy ordered, 
Hazel wandered down to the docks and asked some questions. When she 
came back, she needed cheering up. Even the cheeseburger and fries 
didn't do the trick. 

“We're in trouble,” she said. “I tried to get a boat. But... I 
miscalculated.” 

“No boats?” Frank asked. 

“Oh, I can get a boat,” Hazel said. “But the glacier is farther than I 
thought. Even at top speed, we couldn't get there until tomorrow morning.” 

Percy turned pale. "Maybe I could make the boat go faster?” 

“Even if you could," Hazel said, “from what the captains tell me, it’s 
treacherous — icebergs, mazes of channels to navigate. You’d have to 
know where you were going.” 

“A plane?” Frank asked. 

Hazel shook her head. “I asked the boat captains about that. They said 
we could try, but it’s a tiny airfield. You have to charter a plane two, three 
weeks in advance.” 

They ate in silence after that. Hazel’s cheeseburger was excellent, but 
she couldn't concentrate on it. She'd eaten about three bites when a raven 
settled on the telephone pole above and began to croak at them. 

Hazel shivered. She was afraid it would speak to her like the other 




raven, so many years ago: The last night. Tonight. She wondered if 
ravens always appeared to children of Pluto when they were about to die. 
She hoped Nico was still alive, and Gaea had just been lying to make her 
unsettled. Hazel had a bad feeling that the goddess was telling the truth. 

Nico had told her that he’d search for the Doors of Death from the 
other side. If he'd been captured by Gaea's forces, 

Hazel might've lost the only family she had. 

She stared at her cheeseburger. 

Suddenly, the raven's cawing changed to a strangled yelp. 

Frank got up so fast that he almost toppled the picnic table. Percy 
drew his sword. 

Hazel followed their eyes. Perched on top of the pole where the raven 
had been, a fat ugly gryphon glared down at them. It burped, and raven 
feathers fluttered from its beak. 

Hazel stood and unsheathed her spatha. 

Frank nocked an arrow. He took aim, but the gryphon shrieked so 
loudly the sound echoed off the mountains. Frank flinched, and his shot 
went wide. 

"I think that’s a call for help,” Percy warned. “We have to get out of 
here.” 

With no clear plan, they ran for the docks. The gryphon dove after 
them. Percy slashed at it with his sword, but the gryphon veered out of 
reach. 

They took the steps to the nearest pier and raced to the end. The 
gryphon swooped after them, its front claws extended for the kill. Hazel 
raised her sword, but an icy wall of water slammed sideways into the 
gryphon and washed it into the bay. The gryphon squawked and flapped its 
wings. It managed to scramble onto the pier, where it shook its black fur 
like a wet dog. 

Frank grunted. “Nice one, Percy.” 

"Yeah,” he said. “Didn’t know if I could still do that in Alaska. But bad 
news — look over there.” About a mile away, over the mountains, a black 
cloud was swirling — a whole flock of gryphons, dozens at least. There was 
no way they could fight that many, and no boat could take them away fast 




enough. 

Frank nocked another arrow. “Not going down without a fight.” 

Percy raised Riptide. “I’m with you.” 

Then Hazel heard a sound in the distance — like the whinnying of a 
horse. She must’ve been imagining it, but she cried out desperately, 
"Arion! Over here!” 

A tan blur came ripping down the street and onto the pier. The stallion 
materialized right behind the gryphon, brought down his front hooves, and 
smashed the monster to dust. 

Hazel had never been so happy in her life. “Good horse! Really good 
horse!” 

Frank backed up and almost fell off the pier. “How — ?” 

“He followed me!” Hazel beamed. “Because he's the best — horse — 
EVER! Now, get on!” 

"All three of us?” Percy said. “Can he handle it?” 

Arion whinnied indignantly. 

"All right, no need to be rude,” Percy said. “Let’s go.” 

They climbed on, Hazel in front, Frank and Percy balancing 
precariously behind her. Frank wrapped his arms around her waist, and 
Hazel thought that if this was going to be her last day on earth — it wasn’t a 
bad way to go out. 

“Run, Arion!” she cried. "To Hubbard Glacier!” 

The horse shot across the water, his hooves turning the top of the sea 
to steam. 




X L I I 1 



HAZEL 



Riding Arion, Hazel felt powerful, unstoppable, absolutely in control — a 
perfect combination of horse and human. She wondered if this was what it 
was like to be a centaur. 

The boat captains in Seward had warned her it was three hundred 
nautical miles to the Hubbard Glacier, a hard, dangerous journey, but Arion 
had no trouble. He raced over the water at the speed of sound, heating the 
air around them so that Hazel didn’t even feel the cold. On foot, she never 
would have felt so brave. On horseback, she couldn’t wait to charge into 
battle. 

Frank and Percy didn’t look so happy. When Hazel glanced back, their 
teeth were clenched and their eyeballs were bouncing around in their 
heads. Frank’s cheeks jiggled from the g-force. Percy sat in back, hanging 
on tight, desperately trying not to slip off the horse’s rear. Hazel hoped that 
didn’t happen. The way Arion was moving, she might not notice he was 
gone for fifty or sixty miles. 

They raced through icy straits, past blue Ijords and cliffs with waterfalls 
spilling into the sea. Arion jumped over a breaching humpback whale and 
kept galloping, startling a pack of seals off an iceberg. 

It seemed like only minutes before they zipped into a narrow bay. The 
water turned the consistency of shaved ice in blue sticky syrup. Arion came 
to a halt on a frozen turquoise slab. 

A half a mile away stood Hubbard Glacier. Even Hazel, who’d seen 
glaciers before, couldn’t quite process what she was looking at. Purple 
snowcapped mountains marched off in either direction, with clouds floating 



around their middles like fluffy belts. In a massive valley between two of the 
largest peaks, a ragged wall of ice rose out of the sea, filling the entire 
gorge. The glacier was blue and white with streaks of black, so that it 
looked like a hedge of dirty snow left behind on a sidewalk after a 
snowplow had gone by, only four million times as large. 

As soon as Arion stopped, Hazel felt the temperature drop. All that ice 
was sending off waves of cold, turning the bay into the world's largest 
refrigerator. The eeriest thing was a sound like thunder that rolled across 
the water. 

"What/s that?” Frank gazed at the clouds above the glacier. "A 
storm?” 

“No,” Hazel said. "Ice cracking and shifting. Millions of tons of ice.” 

"You mean that thing is breaking up?” Frank asked. 

As if on cue, a sheet of ice silently calved off the side of the glacier 
and crashed into the sea, spraying water and frozen shrapnel several 
stories high. A millisecond later the sound hit them — a BOOM almost as 
jarring as Arion hitting the sound barrier. 

“We can't get close to that thing!” Frank said. 

“We have to,” Percy said. “The giant is at the top.” 

Arion nickered. 

“Jeez, Hazel,” Percy said, “tell your horse to watch his language.” 

Hazel tried not to laugh. “What did he say?” 

"With the cussing removed? He said he can get us to the top.” 

Frank looked incredulous. “I thought the horse couldn't fly!” 

This time Arion whinnied so angrily, even Hazel could guess he was 
cursing. 

"Dude,” Percy told the horse, “I’ve gotten suspended for saying less 
than that. Hazel, he promises you’ll see what he can do as soon as you 
give the word.” 

“Urn, hold on, then, you guys,” Hazel said nervously. “Arion, giddyup!” 
Arion shot toward the glacier like a runaway rocket, barreling straight 
across the slush like he wanted to play chicken with the mountain of ice. 

The air grew colder. The crackling of the ice grew louder. As Arion 




closed the distance, the glacier loomed so large, Hazel got vertigo just 
trying to take it all in. The side was riddled with crevices and caves, spiked 
with jagged ridges like ax blades. Pieces were constantly crumbling off — 
some no larger than snowballs, some the size of houses. 

When they were about fifty yards from the base, a thunderclap rattled 
Hazel's bones, and a curtain of ice that would have covered Camp Jupiter 
calved away and fell toward them. 

“Look out!” Frank shouted, which seemed a little unnecessary to 
Hazel. 

Arion was way ahead of him. In a burst of speed, he zigzagged 
through the debris, leaping over chunks of ice and clambering up the face 
of the glacier. 

Percy and Frank both cussed like horses and held on desperately 
while Hazel wrapped her arms around Arion’s neck. Somehow, they 
managed not to fall off as Arion scaled the cliffs, jumping from foothold to 
foothold with impossible speed and agility. It was like falling down a 
mountain in reverse. 

Then it was over. Arion stood proudly at the top of a ridge of ice that 
loomed over the void. The sea was now three hundred feet below them. 

Arion whinnied a challenge that echoed off the mountains. Percy didn't 
translate, but Hazel was pretty sure Arion was calling out to any other 
horses that might be in the bay: Beat that, ya punks! 

Then he turned and ran inland across the top of the glacier, leaping a 
chasm fifty feet across. 

“There!” Percy pointed. 

The horse stopped. Ahead of them stood a frozen Roman camp like a 
giant-sized ghastly replica of Camp Jupiter. The trenches bristled with ice 
spikes. The snow-brick ramparts glared blinding white. Hanging from the 
guard towers, banners of frozen blue cloth shimmered in the arctic sun. 

There was no sign of life. The gates stood wide open. No sentries 
walked the walls. Still, Hazel had an uneasy feeling in her gut. She 
remembered the cave in Resurrection Bay where she'd worked to raise 
Alcyoneus — the oppressive sense of malice and the constant boom, 
boom, boom, like Gaea's heartbeat. This place felt similar, as if the earth 




were trying to wake up and consume everything — as if the mountains on 
either side wanted to crush them and the entire glacier to pieces. 

Arion trotted skittishly. 

“Frank,” Percy said, “how about we go on foot from here?” 

Frank sighed with relief. "Thought you'd never ask.” 

They dismounted and took some tentative steps. The ice seemed 
stable, covered with a fine carpet of snow so that it wasn't too slippery. 

Flazel urged Arion forward. Percy and Frank walked on either side, 
sword and bow ready. They approached the gates without being 
challenged. Flazel was trained to spot pits, snares, trip lines, and all sorts 
of other traps Roman legions had faced for eons in enemy territory, but she 
saw nothing — just the yawning icy gates and the frozen banners crackling 
in the wind. 

She could see straight down the Via Praetoria. At the crossroads, in 
front of the snow-brick principia, a tall, dark- robed figure stood, bound in 
icy chains. 

"Thanatos,” Flazel murmured. 

She felt as if her soul were being pulled forward, drawn toward Death 
like dust toward a vacuum. Fler vision went dark. She almost fell off Arion, 
but Frank caught her and propped her up. 

“We've got you,” he promised. "Nobody’s taking you away.” 

Flazel gripped his hand. She didn’t want to let go. Fie was so solid, so 
reassuring, but Frank couldn’t protect her from Death. His own life was as 
fragile as a half-burned piece of wood. 

“I’m all right,” she lied. 

Percy looked around uneasily. “No defenders? No giant? This has to 
be a trap.” 

“Obviously,” Frank said. "But I don't think we have a choice.” 

Before Hazel could change her mind, she urged Arion through the 
gates. The layout was so familiar — cohort barracks, baths, armory. It was 
an exact replica of Camp Jupiter, except three times as big. Even on 
horseback, Hazel felt tiny and insignificant, as if they were moving through 
a model city constructed by the gods. 




They stopped ten feet from the robed figure. 

Now that she was here, Hazel felt a reckless urge to finish the quest. 
She knew she was in more danger than when she'd been fighting the 
Amazons, or fending off the gryphons, or climbing the glacier on Arion's 
back. Instinctively she knew that Thanatos could simply touch her, and she 
would die. 

But she also had a feeling that if she didntsee the quest through, if 
she didn’t face her fate bravely, she would still die — in cowardice and 
failure. The judges of the dead wouldn't be lenient to her a second time. 

Arion cantered back and forth, sensing her disquiet. 

“Hello?” Hazel forced out the word. “Mr. Death?” 

The hooded figure raised his head. 

Instantly, the whole camp stirred to life. Figures in Roman armor 
emerged from the barracks, the principia, the armory, and the canteen, but 
they weren’t human. They were shades — the chattering ghosts Hazel had 
lived with for decades in the Fields of Asphodel. Their bodies weren't 
much more than wisps of black vapor, but they managed to hold together 
sets of scale armor, greaves, and helmets. Frost-covered swords were 
strapped to their waists. Pila and dented shields floated in their smoky 
hands. The plumes on the centurions’ helmets were frozen and ragged. 
Most of the shades were on foot, but two soldiers burst out of the stables in 
a golden chariot pulled by ghostly black steeds. 

When Arion saw the horses, he stamped the ground in outrage. 

Frank gripped his bow. “Yep, here’s the trap.” 




X L I V 



HAZEL 



The ghosts formed ranks and encircled the crossroads. There were abouta 
hundred in all — not an entire legion, but more than a cohort. Some carried 
the tattered lightning bolt banners of the Twelfth Legion, Fifth Cohort — 
Michael 

Varus’s doomed expedition from the 1980s. Others carried standards 
and insignia Hazel didn’t recognize, as if they'd died at different times, on 
different quests — maybe not even from Camp Jupiter. 

Most were armed with Imperial gold weapons — more Imperial gold 
than the entire Twelfth Legion possessed. Hazel could feel the combined 
power of all that gold humming around her, even scarier than the crackling 
of the glacier. She wondered if she could use her power to control the 
weapons, maybe disarm the ghosts, but she was afraid to try. Imperial gold 
wasn’t just a precious metal. It was deadly to demigods and monsters. 
Trying to control that much at once would be like trying to control plutonium 
in a reactor. If she failed, she might wipe Hubbard Glacier off the map and 
kill her friends. 

“Thanatos!” Hazel turned to the robed figure. “We’re here to rescue 
you. If you control these shades, tell them — ” 

Her voice faltered. The god’s hood fell away and his robes dropped off 
as he spread his wings, leaving him in only a sleeveless black tunic belted 
at the waist. He was the most beautiful man Hazel had ever seen. 

His skin was the color of teakwood, dark and glistening like Queen 
Marie’s old seance table. His eyes were as honey gold as Hazel’s. He was 
lean and muscular, with a regal face and black hair flowing down his 



shoulders. His wings glimmered in shades of blue, black, and purple. 

Hazel reminded herself to breathe. 

Beautiful was the right word for Thanatos — not handsome, or hot, or 
anything like that. He was beautiful the way an angel is beautiful — timeless, 
perfect, remote. 

“Oh,” she said in a small voice. 

The god's wrists were shackled in icy manacles, with chains that ran 
straight into the glacier floor. His feet were bare, shackled around the 
ankles and also chained. 

“It’s Cupid,” Frank said. 

"A really buff Cupid,” Percy agreed. 

"You compliment me,” Thanatos said. His voice was as gorgeous as 
he was — deep and melodious. “I am frequently mistaken for the god of 
love. Death has more in common with Love than you might imagine. But I 
am Death. I assure you.” 

Hazel didn't doubt it. She felt as if she were made of ashes. Any 
second, she might crumble and be sucked into the vacuum. She doubted 
Thanatos even needed to touch her to kill her. He could simply tell her to 
die. She would keel over on the spot, her soul obeying that beautiful voice 
and those kind eyes. 

“We're — we're here to save you,” she managed. “Where's 
Alcyone us?” 

“Save me...?” Thanatos narrowed his eyes. "Do you understand what 
you are saying, Hazel Levesque? Do you understand what that will mean?” 

Percy stepped forward. “We're wasting time.” 

He swung his sword at the god's chains. Celestial bronze rang against 
the ice, but Riptide stuck to the chain like glue. Frost began creeping up 
the blade. Percy pulled frantically. Frank ran to help. Together, they just 
managed to yank Riptide free before the frost reached their hands. 

“That won’t work,” Thanatos said simply. “As for the giant, he is close. 
These shades are not mine. They are his.” 

Thanatos's eyes scanned the ghost soldiers. They shifted 
uncomfortably, as if an arctic wind were rattling through their ranks. 

“So how do we get you out?” Hazel demanded. 



Thanatos turned his attention back to her. “Daughter of Pluto, child of 
my master, you of all people should not wish me released.” 

"Don't you think Iknowthat?” Hazel's eyes stung, but she was done 
being afraid. She'd been a scared little girl seventy years ago. She’d lost 
her mother because she acted too late. Now she was a soldier of Rome. 
She wasn't going to fail again. She wasn't going to letdown her friends. 

“Listen, Death.” She drew her cavalry sword, and Arion reared in 
defiance. “I didn’t come back from the Underworld and travel thousands of 
miles to be told that I'm stupid for setting you free. If I die, I die. I’ll fight this 
whole army if I have to. Just tell us how to break your chains.” 

Thanatos studied her for a heartbeat. “Interesting. You do understand 
that these shades were once demigods like you. They fought for Rome. 
They died without completing their heroic quests. Like you, they were sent 
to Asphodel. Now Gaea has promised them a second life if they fight for 
her today. Of course, if you release me and defeat them, they will have to 
return to the Underworld where they belong. For treason against the gods, 
they will face eternal punishment. They are not so different from you, Hazel 
Levesque. Are you sure you want to release me and damn these souls 
forever?” 

Frank clenched his fists. “That’s not fair! Do you want to be freed or 
not?” 

“Fair...” Death mused. "You'd be amazed how often I hear that word, 
Frank Zhang, and how meaningless it is. Is it fair that your life will burn so 
short and bright? Was it fair when I guided your mother to the Underworld?” 

Frank staggered like he'd been punched. 

“No,” Death said sadly. “Not fair. And yet it was her time. There is no 
fairness in Death. If you free me, I will do my duty. But of course these 
shades will try to stop you.” 

“So if we let you go,” Percy summed up, “we get mobbed by a bunch 
of black vapor dudes with gold swords. Fine. How do we break those 
chains?” 

Thanatos smiled. “Only the fire of life can melt the chains of death.” 

“Without the riddles, please?” Percy asked. 

Frank drew a shaky breath. “It isn't a riddle.” 




“Frank, no,” Hazel said weakly. "There's got to be another way.” 

Laughter boomed across the glacier. A rumbling voice said: “My 
friends. I've waited so long!” 

Standing at the gates of the camp was Alcyoneus. He was even larger 
than the giant Polybotes they’d seen in California. He had metallic golden 
skin, armor made from platinum links, and an iron staff the size of a totem 
pole. His rust-red dragon legs pounded against the ice as he entered the 
camp. Precious stones glinted in his red braided hair. 

Hazel had never seen him fully formed, but she knew him better than 
she knew her own parents. She had made him. For months, she had 
raised gold and gems from the earth to create this monster. She knew the 
diamonds he used for a heart. She knew the oil that ran in his veins instead 
of blood. More than anything, she wanted to destroy him. 

The giant approached, grinning at her with his solid silver teeth. 

"Ah, Hazel Levesque,” he said, “you cost me dearly! If not for you, I 
would have risen decades ago, and this world would already be Gaea's. 
But no matter!” 

He spread his hands, showing off the ranks of ghostly soldiers. 
“Welcome, Percy Jackson! Welcome, Frank Zhang! I am Alcyoneus, the 
bane of Pluto, the newmaster of Death. And this is your new legion.” 




X LV 



FRANK 



Nofairnessin Death. Those words kept ringing in Frank’s head. 

The golden giant didn’t scare him. The army of shades didn’t scare 
him. But the thought of freeing Thanatos made Frank want to curl into the 
fetal position. This god had taken his mother. 

Frank understood what he had to do to break those chains. Mars had 
warned him. Fle'd explained why he loved Emily Zhang so much: She 
alrnys put her duty first, ahead of everything. Even her life. 

Now it was Frank’s turn. 

His mother’s sacrifice medal felt warm in his pocket. He finally 
understood his mother’s choice, saving her comrades at the cost of her 
own life. He got what Mars had been trying to tell him — Duty. Sacrifice. 
They mean something. 

In Frank’s chest, a hard knot of anger and resentment — a lump of grief 
he'd been carrying since the funeral — finally began to dissolve. He 
understood why his mother never came home. Some things were worth 
dying for. 

“Hazel.” He tried to keep his voice steady. “That package you’re 
keeping for me? I need it.” 

Hazel glanced at him in dismay. Sitting on Arion, she looked like a 
queen, powerful and beautiful, her brown hair swept over her shoulders and 
a wreath of icy mist around her head. “Frank, no. There has to be another 
way.” 

“Please. I — I know what I’m doing.” 



Thanatos smiled and lifted his manacled wrists. “You’re right, Frank 
Zhang. Sacrifices must be made.” 

Great. If Death approved of his plan, Frank was pretty sure he wasn't 
going to like the results. 

The giant Alcyoneus stepped forward, his reptilian feet shaking the 
ground. “What package do you speak of, Frank Zhang? Have you brought 
me a present?” 

“Nothing for you, Golden Boy,” Frank said. “Except a whole lot of pain.” 

The giant roared with laughter. “Spoken like a child of Mars! Too bad I 
have to kill you. And this one. ..my, my, I've been waiting to meet the 
famous Percy Jackson.” 

The giant grinned. His silver teeth made his mouth look like a car 
grille. 

“I've followed your progress, son of Neptune,” said Alcyoneus. “Your 
fight with Kronos? Well done. Gaea hates you above all others... except 
perhaps for that upstart Jason Grace. I'm sorry I can’t kill you right away, 
but my brother Polybotes wishes to keep you as a pet. He thinks it will be 
amusing when he destroys Neptune to have the god’s favorite son on a 
leash. After that, of course, Gaea has plans for you.” 

"Yeah, flattering.” Percy raised Riptide. “But actually I'm the son of 
Poseidon. I'm from Camp Half-Blood.” 

The ghosts stirred. Some drew swords and lifted shields. Alcyoneus 
raised his hand, gesturing for them to wait. 

“Greek, Roman, it doesn’t matter,” the giant said easily. “We will crush 
both camps underfoot. You see, the Titans didn’t think big enough. They 
planned to destroy the godsin their new home of America. We giants know 
better! To kill a weed, you must pull up its roots. Even now, while my forces 
destroy your little Roman camp, my brother Porphyrionis preparing for the 
real battle in the ancient lands! We will destroy the gods at their source.” 

The ghosts pounded their swords against their shields. The sound 
echoed across the mountains. 

"The source?” Frank asked. “You mean Greece?” 

Alcyoneus chuckled. "No need to worry about that, son of Mars. You 
won’t live long enough to see our ultimate victory. 




I will replace Pluto as lord of the Underworld. I already have Death in 
my custody. With Hazel Levesque in my service, I will have all the riches 
under the earth as well!” 

Hazel gripped her spatha. “I don't do service." 

“Oh, but you gave me life!” Alcyoneus said. “True, we hoped to 
awaken Gaea during World War II. That would’ve been glorious. But really, 
the world is in almost as bad a shape now. Soon, your civilization will be 
wiped out. The Doors of Death will stand open. Those who serve us will 
never perish. Alive or dead, you three m ill join my army.” 

Percy shook his head. “Fat chance, Golden Boy. You're going down.” 
“Wait.” Hazel spurred her horse toward the giant. “I raised this monster 
from the earth. I'm the daughter of Pluto. It’s my place to kill him.” 

"Ah, little Hazel.” Alcyoneus planted his staff on the ice. His hair 
glittered with millions of dollars’ worth of gems. “Are you sure you will not 
join us of your own free will? You could be quite ... precious to us. Why die 
again?” Hazel’s eyes flashed with anger. She looked down at Frank and 
pulled the wrapped-up piece of firewood from her coat. 

"Are you sure?” 

"Yeah,” he said. 

She pursed her lips. “You’re my best friend, too, Frank. I should have 
told you that.” She tossed him the stick. “Do what you have to. And Percy... 
can you protect him?” 

Percy gazed at the ranks of ghostly Romans. “Against a small army? 
Sure, no problem.” 

“Then I've got Golden Boy,” Hazel said. 

She charged the giant. 




X L V 1 



FRANK 



Frank unwrapped the rrewood and knelt at the feet of Th anatos. 

He was aware of Percy standing over him, swinging his sword and 
yelling in defiance as the ghosts closed in. He heard the giant bellow and 
Arion whinny angrily, but he didn’t dare look. 

His hands trembling, he held his piece of tinder next to the chains on 
Death’s right leg. He thought about flames, and instantly the wood blazed. 

Horrible warmth spread through Frank’s body. The icy metal began to 
melt, the flame so bright it was more blinding than the ice. 

“Good,” Thanatos said. “Very good, Frank Zhang.” 

Frank had heard about people’s lives flashing before their eyes, but 
now he experienced it literally. He saw his mother the day she left for 
Afghanistan. She smiled and hugged him. He tried to breath in her jasmine 
scent so he'd never forget it. 

I will always be proud of you, Frank, she said. Someday, youll travel 
even farther than I. Youll bring our family full circle. Years from now/ our 
descendants will be telling stories about the hero Frank Zhang, their 
great-, great-, great — She poked him in the belly for old times’ sake. It 
would be the last time Frank smiled for months. 

He saw himself at the picnic bench in Moose Pass, watching the stars 
and the northern lights as Hazel snored softly beside him, Percy saying, 
Frank, you are a leader. We need you. 

He saw Percy disappearing into the muskeg, then Hazel diving after 
him. Frank remembered how alone he had felt holding on to the bow, how 



utterly powerless. He had pleaded with the Olympian gods — even Mars — 
to help his friends, but he knew they were beyond the gods' reach. 

With a clank, the first chain broke. Quickly, Frank stabbed the firewood 
at the chain on Death's other leg. 

He risked a glance over his shoulder. 

Percy was fighting like a whirlwind. In fact.. .he was a whirlwind. A 
miniature hurricane of water and ice vapor churned around him as he 
waded through the enemy, knocking Roman ghosts away, deflecting 
arrows and spears. Since when did he have that power? 

He moved through the enemy lines, and even though he seemed to be 
leaving Frank undefended, the enemy was completely focused on Percy. 
Frank wasn’t sure why — then he saw Percy’s goal. One of the black vapory 
ghosts was wearing the lion’s-skin cape of a standard bearer and holding 
a pole with a golden eagle, icicles frozen to its wings. The legion's 
standard. 

Frank watched as Percy plowed through a line of legionnaires, 
scattering their shields with his personal cyclone. He knocked down the 
standard bearer and grabbed the eagle. 

“You want it back?” he shouted at the ghosts. “Come and get it!” 

He drew them away, and Frank couldn’t help being awed by his bold 
strategy. As much as those shades wanted to keep Thanatos chained, 
they were Roman spirits. Their minds were fuzzy at best, like the ghosts 
Frank had seen in Asphodel, but they remembered one thing clearly: they 
were supposed to protect their eagle. 

Still, Percy couldn’t fight off that many enemies forever. Maintaining a 
storm like that had to be difficult. Despite the cold, his face was already 
beaded with sweat. 

Frank looked for Hazel. He couldn't see her or the giant. 

"Watch your fire, boy,” Death warned. “You don't have any to waste.” 

Frank cursed. He’d gotten so distracted, he hadn’t noticed the second 
chain had melted. 

He moved his fire to the shackles on the god's right hand. The piece of 
tinder was almost half gone now. Frank started to shiver. More images 
flashed through his mind. He saw Mars sitting at his grandmother's 




bedside, looking at Frank with those nuclear explosion eyes: You’re Juno’s 
secret weapon. Have you figured out your gift yet? 

He heard his mother say: You can be anything. 

Then he saw Grandmother's stern face, her skin as thin as rice paper, 
her white hair spread across her pillow. Yes, Fai Zhang. Your mother was 
not simply boosting your self-esteem. She was telling you the literal truth. 

He thought of the grizzly bear his mother had intercepted at the edge 
of the woods. He thought of the large black bird circling over the flames of 
their family mansion. 

The third chain snapped. Frank thrust the tinder at the last shackle. His 
body was racked with pain. Yellow splotches danced in his eyes. 

He saw Percy at the end of the Via Principalis, holding off the army of 
ghosts. He’d overturned the chariot and destroyed several buildings, but 
every time he threw off a wave of attackers in his hurricane, the ghosts 
simply got up and charged again. Every time Percy slashed one of them 
down with his sword, the ghost re-formed immediately. Percy had backed 
up almost as far as he could go. Behind him was the side gate of the 
camp, and about twenty feet beyond that, the edge of the glacier. 

As for Hazel, she and Alcyoneus had managed to destroy most of the 
barracks in their battle. Now they were fighting in the wreckage at the main 
gate. Arion was playing a dangerous game of tag, charging around the 
giant while Alyconeus swiped at them with his staff, knocking over walls 
and cleaving massive chasms in the ice. Only Arion's speed kept them 
alive. 

Finally, Death's last chain snapped. With a desperate yelp, Frank 
jabbed his firewood into a pile of snow and extinguished the flame. His 
pain faded. He was still alive. But when he took out the piece of tinder, it 
was no more than a stub, smaller than a candy bar. 

Thanatos raised his arms. 

"Free,” he said with satisfaction. 

“Great.” Frank blinked the spots from his eyes. "Then do something!” 

Thanatos gave him a calm smile. "Do something? Of course. I will 
watch. Those who die in this battle will stay dead.” 

“Thanks,” Frank muttered, slipping his firewood into his coat. "Very 




helpful.” 

“You're most welcome,” Thanatos said agreeably. 

“Percy!” Frank yelled. "They can die now!” 

Percy nodded understanding, but he looked worn out. His hurricane 
was slowing down. His strikes were getting slower. The entire ghostly army 
had him surrounded, gradually forcing him toward the edge of the glacier. 

Frank drew his bow to help. Then he dropped it. Normal arrows from a 
hunting store in Seward wouldn't do any good. Frank would have to use his 
gift. 

He thought he understood his powers at last. Something about 
watching the firewood burn, smelling the acrid smoke of his own life, had 
made him feel strangely confident. 

Is it fair your life burns so short and bright? Death had asked. 

“No such thing as fair,” Frank told himself. “If I'm going to burn, it might 
as well be bright.” 

He took one step toward Percy. Then, from across the camp, Hazel 
yelled in pain. Arion screamed as the giant got a lucky shot. His staff sent 
horse and rider tumbling over the ice, crashing into the ramparts. 

“Hazel!” Frank glanced back at Percy, wishing he had his spear. If he 
could just summon Gray. ..but he couldn't be in two places at once. 

"Go help her!” Percy yelled, holding the golden eagle aloft. “I’ve got 
these guys!” 

Percy didnt have them. Frank knew that. The son of Poseidon was 
about to be overwhelmed, but Frank ran to Hazel's aid. 

She was half-buried in a collapsed pile of snow-bricks. Arion stood 
over her, trying to protect her, rearing and swatting at the giant with his front 
hooves. 

The giant laughed. “Hello, little pony. You want to play?” 

Alcyoneus raised his icy staff. 

Frank was too far away to help. ..but he imagined himself rushing 
forward, his feet leaving the ground. 

Be anything. 

He remembered the bald eagles they’d seen on the train ride. His 




body became smaller and lighter. His arms stretched into wings, and his 
sight became a thousand times sharper. He soared upward, then dove at 
the giant with his talons extended, his razor-sharp claws raking across the 
giant’s eyes. 

Alcyoneus bellowed in pain. He staggered backward as Frank landed 
in front of Hazel and returned to his normal form. 

“Frank...” She stared at him in amazement, a cap of snow dripping off 
herhead. “Whatjust. ..how did — ?” 

“Fool!” Alcyoneus shouted. His face was slashed, black oil dripping 
into his eyes instead of blood, but the wounds were already closing. “I am 
immortal in my homeland, Frank Zhang! And thanks to your friend Hazel, 
my new homeland is Alaska. You cannot kill me here!” 

“We'll see,” Frank said. Power coursed through his arms and legs. 
“Hazel, get back on your horse.” 

The giant charged, and Frank charged to meet him. He remembered 
the bear he’d met face to face when he was a child. As he ran, his body 
became heavier, thicker, rippling with muscles. He crashed into the giant 
as a full-grown grizzly, a thousand pounds of pure force. He was still small 
compared to Alcyoneus, but he slammed into the giant with such 
momentum, Alcyoneus toppled into an icy watchtower that collapsed on 
top of him. 

Frank sprang at the giant’s head. A swipe of his claw was like a 
heavyweight fighter swinging a chain saw. Frank bashed the giant’s face 
back and forth until his metallic features began to dent. 

“Urgg,” the giant mumbled in a stupor. 

Frank changed to his regular form. His backpack was still with him. He 
grabbed the rope he’d bought in Seward, quickly made a noose, and 
fastened it around the giant's scaly dragon foot. 

“Hazel, here!” He tossed her the other end of the rope. “I’ve got an 
idea, but we'll have to — ” 

“Kill — uh — you — uh. . .” Alcyoneus muttered. 

Frank ran to the giant’s head, picked up the nearest heavy object he 
could find — a legion shield — and slammed it into the giant's nose. 

The giant said, “Urgg.” 




Frank looked back at Hazel. “How far can Arion pull this guy?” 

Hazel just stared at him. “You — you were a bird. Then a bear. And — ” 

“I’ll explain later,” Frank said. “We need to drag this guy inland, as fast 
and far as we can.” 

“But Percy!” Hazel said. 

Frank cursed. How could he have forgotten? 

Through the ruins of the camp, he saw Percy with his back to the edge 
of the cliff. His hurricane was gone. He held Riptide in one hand and the 
legion's golden eagle in the other. The entire army of shades edged 
forward, their weapons bristling. 

“Percy!” Frank yelled. 

Percy glanced over. He saw the fallen giant and seemed to 
understand what was happening. He yelled something that was lost in the 
wind, probably: Go! 

Then he slammed Riptide into the ice at his feet. The entire glacier 
shuddered. Ghosts fell to their knees. Behind Percy, a wave surged up 
from the bay — a wall of gray water even taller than the glacier. Water shot 
from the chasms and crevices in the ice. As the wave hit, the back half of 
the camp crumbled. The entire edge of the glacier peeled away, 
cascading into the void — carrying buildings, ghosts, and Percy Jackson 
over the edge. 




X L V I I 



FRANK 



Frank was so stunned that Hazel had to yell his name a dozen times 
before he realized Alcyoneus was getting up again. 

He slammed his shield into the giant’s nose until Alcyoneus began to 
snore. Meanwhile the glacier kept crumbling, the edge getting closer and 
closer. 

Thanatos glided toward them on his black wings, his expression 
serene. 

“Ah, yes,” he said with satisfaction. “There go some souls. Drowning, 
drowning. You’d best hurry, my friends, or you’ll drown, too.” 

“But Percy...” Frank could barely speak his friend’s name. “Is he — ?” 
“Too soon to tell. As for this one...” Thanatos looked down at 
Alcyoneus with distaste. “You’ll never kill him here. You know what to do?” 
Frank nodded numbly. “I think so.” 

“Then our business is complete.” 

Frank and Hazel exchanged nervous looks. 

“Urn...” Hazel faltered. “You mean you won’t. ..you’re not going to 
— ’’“Claim your life?” Thanatos asked. “Well, let’s see...” 

He pulled a pure-black iPad from thin air. Death tapped the screen a 
few times, and all Frank could think was: Please don’t let there be an app 
for reaping souls. 

“I don't see you on the list,” Thanatos said. “Pluto gives me specific 
orders for escaped souls, you see. For some reason, he has not issued a 
warrant for yours. Perhaps he feels your life is not finished, or it could be an 



oversight. If you'd like me to call and ask — ” 

"No!” Hazel yelped. “That's okay.” 

"Are you sure?” Death asked helpfully. “I have video conferencing 
enabled. I have his Skype address here somewhere...” 

“Really, no.” Hazel looked as if several thousand pounds of worry had 
just been lifted from her shoulders. "Thank you.” 

“Urgg,” Alcyoneus mumbled. 

Frank hit him over the head again. 

Death looked up from his iPad. “As for you, Frank Zhang, it isn’t your 
time, either. You’ve got a little fuel left to burn. But don't think I’m doing 
either of you a favor. We will meet again under less pleasant 
circumstances.” 

The cliff was still crumbling, the edge only twenty feet away now. Arion 
whinnied impatiently. Frank knew they had to leave, but there was one 
more question he had to ask. 

“What about the Doors of Death?” he said. “Where are they? How do 
we close them?” 

"Ah, yes.” A look of irritation flickered across Thanatos’s face. "The 
Doors of Me. Closing them would be good, but I fear it is beyond my 
power. How you would do it, I haven’t the faintest idea. I can’t tell you 
exactly where they are. The location isn’t. ..well, it’s not entirely a physical 
place. They must be located through questing. I can tell you to start your 
search in Rome. The original Rome. You will need a special guide. Only 
one sort of demigod can read the signs that will ultimately lead you to the 
Doors of Me.” 

Cracks appeared in the ice under their feet. Hazel patted Arion’s neck 
to keep him from bolting. 

“What about my brother?” she asked. "Is Nico alive?” 

Thanatos gave her a strange look — possibly pity, though that didn't 
seem like an emotion Death would understand. “You will find the answer in 
Rome. And now I must fly south to your Camp Jupiter. I have a feeling there 
will be many souls to reap, very soon. Farewell, demigods, until we meet 
again.” 

Thanatos dissipated into black smoke. 




The cracks widened in the ice under Frank's feet. 

“Hurry!” he told Hazel. “We’ve got to take Alcyoneus about ten miles 
due north!” 

He climbed onto the giant’s chest and Arion took off, racing across the 
ice, dragging Alcyoneus like the world's ugliest sled. 

It was a short trip. 

Arion rode the glacier like a highway, zipping across the ice, leaping 
crevices, and skidding down slopes that would’ve made a snowboarder's 
eyes light up. 

Frank didn't have to knock out Alcyoneus too many times, because the 
giant's head kept bouncing and hitting the ice. As they raced along, the 
half-conscious Golden Boy mumbled a tune that sounded like “Jingle 
Bells.” 

Frank felt pretty stunned himself. He’d just turned into an eagle and a 
bear. He could still feel fluid energy rippling through his body, like he was 
hallway between a solid and liquid state. 

Not only that: Hazel and he had released Death, and both of them had 
survived. And Percy.. .Frank swallowed down his fear. Percy had gone 
over the side of the glacier to save them. 

The son of Neptune shall drowi. 

No. Frank refused to believe Percy was dead. They hadn’t come all 
this way just to lose their friend. Frank would find him — but first they had to 
deal with Alcyoneus. 

He visualized the map he had been studying on the train from 
Anchorage. He knew roughly where they were going, but there were no 
signs or markers on top of the glacier. He'd just have to take his best 
guess. 

Finally Arion zoomed between two mountains into a valley of ice and 
rocks, like a massive bowl of frozen milk with bits of Cocoa Puffs. The 
giant's golden skin paled as if it were turning to brass. Frank felt a subtle 
vibration in his own body, like a tuning fork pressed against his sternum. 
He knew he'd crossed into friendly territory — home territory. 

“Here!” Frank shouted. 




Arion veered to one side. Hazel cut the rope, and Alcyoneus went 
skidding past. Frank leaped off just before the giant slammed into a 
boulder. 

Immediately Alcyoneus jumped to his feet. “What? Where? Who?” 

His nose was bent in an odd direction. His wounds had healed, though 
his golden skin had lost some of its luster. He looked around for his iron 
staff, which was still back at Hubbard Glacier. Then he gave up and 
pounded the nearest boulder to pieces with his fist. 

"You dare take me for a sleigh ride?” He tensed and sniffed the air. 
“That smell... like snuffed-out souls. Thanatos is free, eh? Bah! It doesn't 
matter. Gaea still controls the Doors of Death. Now, why have you brought 
me here, son of Mars?” 

"To kill you,” Frank said. “Next question?” 

The giant’s eyes narrowed. “I've never known a child of Mars who can 
change his form, but that doesn’t mean you can defeat me. Do you think 
your stupid soldier of a father gave you the strength to face me in one-on- 
one combat?” 

Hazel drew her sword. “How about two on one?” 

The giant growled and charged at Hazel, but Arion nimbly darted out of 
the way. Hazel slashed her sword across the back of the giant’s calf. Black 
oil spouted from the wound. 

Alcyoneus stumbled. “You can't kill me, Thanatos or no!” 

Hazel made a grabbing gesture with her free hand. An invisible force 
yanked the giant’s jewel-encrusted hair back ward. Hazel rushed in, 
slashed his other leg, and raced away before he could regain his balance. 

“Stop that!” Alcyoneus shouted. “This is Alaska. I am immortal in my 
homeland!” 

"Actually,” Frank said, “I have some bad news about that. See, I got 
more from my dad than strength.” 

The giant snarled. “What are you talking about, war brat?” 

“Tactics,” Frank said. “That’s my gift from Mars. A battle can be won 
before it’s ever fought by choosing the right ground.” He pointed over his 
shoulder. “We crossed the border a few hundred yards back. You’re not in 
Alaska anymore. Can’t you feel it, Al? You want to get to Alaska, you have 




to go through me.” 

Slowly, understanding dawned in the giant’s eyes. He looked down 
incredulously at his wounded legs. Oil still poured from his calves, turning 
the ice black. 

"Impossible!” the giant bellowed. “I’ll — I'll — Gah!” 

He charged at Frank, determined to reach the international boundary. 
For a split second, Frank doubted his plan. If he couldn't use his gift again, 
if he froze, he was dead. Then he remembered his grandmother's 
instructions: 

It helps if you knowthe creature we//. Check. 

It also helps if you are in a life-and-death situation, such as combat. 
Double check. 

The giant kept coming. Twenty yards. Ten yards. 

"Frank?” Hazel called nervously. 

Frank stood his ground. “I got this.” 

Just before Alcyoneus smashed into him, Frank changed. He’d always 
felt too big and clumsy. Now he used that feeling. His body swelled to 
massive size. His skin thickened. His arms changed to stout front legs. His 
mouth grew tusks and his nose elongated. He became the animal he knew 
best — the one he’d cared for, fed, bathed, and even given indigestion to at 
Camp Jupiter. 

Alcyoneus slammed into a full-grown ten-ton elephant. 

The giant staggered sideways. He screamed in frustration and 
slammed into Frank again, but Alcyoneus was completely out of his weight 
division. Frank head-butted him so hard Alcyoneus flew backward and 
landed spread-eagled on the ice. 

"You — can't — kill me,” Alcyoneus growled. “You can't — ” 

Frank turned back to his normal form. He walked up to the giant, 
whose oily wounds were steaming. The gems fell out of his hair and sizzled 
in the snow. His golden skin began to corrode, breaking into chunks. 

Hazel dismounted and stood next to Frank, her sword ready. “May I?” 

Frank nodded. He looked into the giant’s seething eyes. “Here’s a tip, 
Alcyoneus. Next time you choose the biggest state for your home, don’t set 




up base in the part that’s only ten miles wide. Welcome to Canada, idiot.” 

Hazel's sword came down on the giant’s neck. Alcyoneus dissolved 
into a pile of very expensive rocks. 

For a while Hazel and Frank stood together, watching the remains of 
the giant melt into the ice. Frank picked up his rope. 

"An elephant?” Hazel asked. 

Frank scratched his neck. “Yeah. It seemed like a good idea.” 

He couldn't read her expression. He was afraid he'd finally done 
something so weird that she'd never want to be around him again. Frank 
Zhang: lumbering klutz, child of Mars, part-time pachyderm. 

Then she kissed him — a real kiss on the lips, much better than the kind 
of kiss she'd given Percy on the airplane. 

“You are amazing,” she said. “And you make a very hand some 
elephant.” 

Frank felt so flustered that he thought his boots might melt through the 
ice. Before he could say anything, a voice echoed across the valley: 

You haven’t won. 

Frank looked up. Shadows were shifting across the nearest mountain, 
forming the face of a sleeping woman. 

You wll never reach home in time, taunted the voice of Gaea. Even 
now Thanatos is attending the death of Camp Jupiter, the final 
destruction of your Roman friends. 

The mountain rumbled as if the whole earth were laughing. The 
shadows disappeared. 

Hazel and Frank looked at each other. Neither said a word. They 
climbed onto Arion and sped back toward Glacier Bay. 




X L V I i I 



FRANK 



Percy was waiting for them. He looked mad. 

He stood at the edge of the glacier, leaning on the staff with the golden 
eagle, gazing down at the wreckage he'd caused: several hundred acres 
of newly open water dotted with icebergs and flotsam from the ruined 
camp. 

The only remains on the glacier were the main gates, which listed 
sideways, and a tattered blue banner lying over a pile of snow-bricks. 

When they ran up to him, Percy said, “Hey,” like they were just meeting 
for lunch or something. 

“You’re alive!” Frank marveled. 

Percy frowned. “The fall? That was nothing. I fell twice that far from the 
St. Louis Arch.” 

“You did iV?af?”Hazel asked. 

“Never mind. The important thing was I didn’t drown.” 

“So the prophecy was incomplete!” Hazel grinned. “It probably said 
something like: The son of Neptune w II drowi a \tfiole bunch of ghosts." 

Percy shrugged. He was still looking at Frank like he was miffed. “I got 
a bone to pick with you, Zhang. You can turn into an eagle? And a bear?” 

“And an elephant,” Hazel said proudly. 

“An elephant.” Percy shook his head in disbelief. “That’s your family 
gift? You can change shape?” 

Frank shuffled his feet. “Urn... yeah. Periclymenus, my ancestor, the 
Argonaut — he could do that. He passed down the ability.” 



"And he got that gift from Poseidon,” Percy said. “That’s completely 
unfair. I can't turn into animals.” 

Frank stared at him. “Unfair? You can breathe underwater and blow up 
glaciers and summon freaking hurricanes — and it’s unfair that I can be an 
elephant?” 

Percy considered. “Okay. I guess you got a point. But next time I say 
you're totally beast — ” 

“Just shut up,” Frank said. "Please.” 

Percy cracked a smile. 

“If you guys are done,” Hazel said, “we need to go. Camp Jupiter is 
under attack. They could use that gold eagle.” 

Percy nodded. “One thing first, though. Hazel, there’s about a ton of 
Imperial gold weapons and armor at the bottom of the bay now, plus a 
really nice chariot. I'm betting that stuff could come in handy....” 

It took them a long time — too long — but they all knew those weapons 
could make the difference between victory and defeat if they got them back 
to camp in time. 

Hazel used her abilities to levitate some items from the bottom of the 
sea. Percy swam down and brought up more. Even Frank helped by 
turning into a seal, which was kind of cool, though Percy claimed his breath 
smelled like fish. 

It took all three of them to raise the chariot, but finally they'd managed 
to haul everything ashore to a black sand beach near the base of the 
glacier. They couldn’t fit everything in the chariot, but they used Frank's 
rope to strap down most of the gold weapons and the best pieces of 
armor. 

“It looks like Santa's sleigh,” Frank said. “Can Arion even pull that 
much?” 

Arion huffed. 

“Hazel,” Percy said, "I am seriously going to wash your horse's mouth 
with soap. He says, yes, he can pull it, but he needs food.” 

Hazel picked up an old Roman dagger, a pugio. It was bent and dull, 
so it wouldn't be much good in a fight, but it looked like solid Imperial gold. 




“Here you go, Arion,” she said. “High-performance fuel.” 

The horse took the dagger in his teeth and chewed it like an apple. 
Frank made a silent oath never to put his hand near that horse's mouth. 

“I’m not doubting Arion’s strength,” he said carefully, “but will the 
chariot hold up? The last one — ” 

"This one has Imperial gold wheels and axle,” Percy said. “It should 
hold.” 

“If not,” Hazel said, “this is going to be a short trip. But we're out of 
time. Come on!” 

Frank and Percy climbed into the chariot. Hazel swung up onto Arion' s 
back. 

“Giddyup!” she yelled. 

The horse's sonic boom echoed across the bay. They sped south, 
avalanches tumbling down the mountains as they passed. 




X L I X 



PERCY 



Four hours. 

That’s how long it took the fastest horse on the planet to get from 
Alaska to San Francisco Bay, heading straight over the water down the 
Northwest Coast. 

That’s also how long it took for Percy’s memory to return completely. 
The process had started in Portland when he had drunk the gorgon’s 
blood, but his past life had still been maddeningly fuzzy. Now, as they 
headed back into the Olympian gods’ territory, Percy remembered 
everything: the war with Kronos, his sixteenth birthday at Camp Half-Blood, 
his trainer Chiron the centaur, his best friend Grover, his brother Tyson, 
and most of all Annabeth — two great months of dating, and then BOOM. 
He’d been abducted by the alien known as Hera. Or Juno... whatever. 

Eight months of his life stolen. Next time Percy saw the Queen of 
Olympus, he was definitely going to give her a goddess-sized slap upside 
the head. 

His friends and family must be going out of their minds. If Camp 
Jupiter was in such bad trouble, he could only guess what Camp Half- 
Blood must be facing without him. 

Even worse: Saving both camps would be only the beginning. 
According to Alcyoneus, the real war would happen far away, in the 
homeland of the gods. The giants intended to attack the original Mount 
Olympus and destroy the gods forever. 

Percy knew that giants couldn’t die unless demigods and gods fought 



them together. Nico had told him that. Annabeth had mentioned it too, back 
in August, when she'd speculated that the giants might be part of the new 
Great Prophecy — what the Romans called the Prophecy of Seven. (That 
was the downside of dating the smartest girl at camp: You learn stuff.) 

He understood Juno's plan: Unite the Roman and Greek demigods to 
create an elite team of heroes, then somehow convince the gods to fight 
alongside them. But first, they had to save Camp Jupiter. 

The coastline began to look familiar. They raced past the Mendocino 
lighthouse. Shortly afterward, Mount Tam and the Marin headlands loomed 
out of the fog. Arion shot straight under the Golden Gate Bridge into San 
Francisco Bay. 

They tore through Berkeley and into the Oakland Hills. When they 
reached the hilltop above the Caldecott Tunnel, Arion shuddered like a 
broken car and came to a stop, his chest heaving. 

Hazel patted his sides lovingly. “You did great, Arion.” 

The horse was too tired even to cuss: Of course I did great. What did 
you expect? 

Percy and Frank jumped off the chariot. Percy wished there'd been 
comfortable seats or an in-flight meal. His legs were wobbly. His joints 
were so stiff, he could barely walk. If he went into battle like this, the enemy 
would call him Old Man Jackson. 

Frank didn't look much better. He hobbled to the top of the hill and 
peered down at the camp. “Guys... you need to see this.” 

When Percy and Hazel joined him, Percy's heart sank. The battle had 
begun, and it wasn’t going well. The Twelfth Legion was arrayed on the 
Field of Mars, trying to protect the city. Scorpions fired into the ranks of the 
Earthborn. Hannibal the elephant plowed down monsters right and left, but 
the defenders were badly outnumbered. 

On her pegasus Scipio, Reyna flew around the giant Polybotes, trying 
to keep him occupied. The Lares had formed shimmering purple lines 
against a mob of black, vaporous shades in ancient armor. Veteran 
demigods from the city had joined the battle, and were pushing their shield 
wall against an onslaught of wild centaurs. Giant eagles circled the 
battlefield, doing aerial combat with two snake-haired ladies in green 




Bargain Mart vests — Stheno and Euryale. 

The legion itself was taking the brunt of the attack, but their formation 
was breaking. Each cohort was an island in a sea of enemies. The 
Cyclopes' siege tower shot glowing green cannonballs into the city, 
blasting craters in the forum, reducing houses to ruins. As Percy watched, 
a cannonball hit the Senate House and the dome partially collapsed. 

“We're too late,” Hazel said. 

"No,” Percy said. 'They're still fighting. We can do this.” 

“Where's Lupa?” Frank asked, desperation creeping into his voice. 
“She and the wolves... they should be here.” 

Percy thought about his time with the wolf goddess. He’d come to 
respect her teachings, but he’d also learned that wolves had limits. They 
weren't front-line fighters. They only attacked when they had vastly superior 
numbers, and usually under the cover of darkness. Besides, Lupa's first 
rule was self-sufficiency. She would help her children as much as she 
could, train them to fight — but in the end, they were either predator or prey. 
Romans had to fight for themselves. They had to prove their worth or die. 
That was Lupa's way. 

“She did what she could,” Percy said. “She slowed down the army on 
its way south. Now it’s up to us. We've got to get the gold eagle and these 
weapons to the legion.” 

"But Arion is out of steam!” Hazel said. “We can’t haul this stuff 
ourselves.” 

“Maybe we don’t have to.” Percy scanned the hilltops. If Tyson had 
gotten his dream message in Vancouver, help might be close. 

He whistled as loud as he could — a good New York cab whistle that 
would've been heard all the way from Times Square to Central Park. 

Shadows rippled in the trees. A huge black shape bounded out of 
nowhere — a mastiff the size of an SUV, with a Cyclops and a harpy on her 
back. 

“Hellhound!” Frank scrambled backward. 

“It’s okay!” Percy grinned. "These are friends.” 

“Brother!” Tyson climbed off and ran toward Percy. Percy tried to 
brace himself, but it was no good. Tyson slammed into him and smothered 




him in a hug. For a few seconds, Percy could only see black spots and lots 
of flannel. Then Tyson let go and laughed with delight, looking Percy over 
with that massive baby brown eye. 

“You are not dead!” he said. “I like it when you are not dead!” 

Ella fluttered to the ground and began preening her feathers. “Ella 
found a dog,” she announced. "A large dog. And a Cyclops.” 

Was she blushing? Before Percy could decide, his black mastiff 
pounced on him, knocking Percy to the ground and barking so loudly that 
even Arion backed up. 

“Hey, Mrs. O'Leary,” Percy said. "Yeah, I love you too, girl. Good dog.” 

Hazel made a squeaking sound. “You have a hellhound named Mrs. 
0'Leary?”“Long story." Percy managed to get to his feet and wipe off the 
dog slobber. “You can ask your brother. . 

His voice wavered when he saw Hazel's expression. He’d almost 
forgotten that Nico di Angelo was missing. 

Hazel had told him what Thanatos had said about searching for the 
Doors of Death in Rome, and Percy was anxious to find Nico for his own 
reasons — to wring the kid’s neck for having pretended he didn't know 
Percy when he first came to camp. Still, he was Hazel's brother, and 
finding him was a conversation for another time. 

“Sorry,” he said. “But yeah, this is my dog, Mrs. O’Leary. Tyson — these 
are my friends, Frank and Hazel.” 

Percy turned to Ella, who was counting all the barbs in one of her 
feathers. 

“Are you okay?” he asked. “We were worried about you.” 

“Ella is not strong,” she said. “Cyclopes are strong. Tyson found Ella. 
Tyson took care of Ella.” 

Percy raised his eyebrows. Ella was blushing. 

“Tyson,” he said, “you big charmer, you.” 

Tyson turned the same color as Ella's plumage. “Urn... No.” He leaned 
down and whispered nervously, loud enough for all the others to hear: “She 
is pretty.” 

Frank tapped his head like he was afraid his brain had short-circuited. 
“Anyway, there's this battle happening.” 




“Right,” Percy agreed. “Tyson, where's Annabeth? Is any other help 
coming?” 

Tyson pouted. His big brown eye got misty. “The big ship is not ready. 
Leo says tomorrow, maybe two days. Then they will come.” 

“We don't have two minutes," Percy said. “Okay, here's the plan.” 

As quickly as possible, he pointed out which were the good guys and 
the bad guys on the battlefield. Tyson was alarmed to learn that bad 
Cyclopes and bad centaurs were in the giant’s army. “I have to hit pony- 
men?” 

“Just scare them away,” Percy promised. 

“Urn, Percy?” Frank looked at Tyson with trepidation. “I just... don't 
want our friend here getting hurt. Is Tyson afighter?” 

Percy smiled. “Is he a fighter? Frank, you’re looking at General Tyson 
of the Cyclops army. And by the way, Tyson, Frank is a descendant of 
Poseidon.” 

“Brother!” Tyson crushed Frank in a hug. 

Percy stifled a laugh. “Actually he's more like a great-great-... Oh, 
never mind. Yeah, he's your brother.” 

“Thanks,” Frank mumbled through a mouthful of flannel. “But if the 
legion mistakes Tyson for an enemy — ” 

” I’ve got it!” Hazel ran to the chariot and dug out the biggest Roman 
helmet she could find, plus an old Roman banner embroidered with spqr. 

She handed them to Tyson. “Put those on, big guy. Then our friends 
will know you're on our team.” 

“Yay!” Tyson said. “I’m on your team!” 

The helmet was ridiculously small, and he put the cape on backward, 
like a spqr baby bib. 

“It’ll do,” Percy said. “Ella, just stay here. Stay safe.” 

“Safe,” Ella repeated. “Ella likes being safe. Safety in numbers. Safety 
deposit boxes. Ella will go with Tyson.” 

"What?” Percy said. “Oh... fine. Whatever. Just don’t get hurt. And Mrs. 
O'Leary — ” 

“ROOOF!” 




“How do you feel about pulling a chariot?” 




L 



PERCY 



They were, without a doubt, the strangest reinforcements in Roman military 
history. Hazel rode Arion, who had recovered enough to carry one person 
at normal horse speed, though he cursed about his aching hooves all the 
way downhill. 

Frank transformed into a bald eagle — which Percy still found totally 
unfair — and soared above them. Tyson ran down the hill, waving his club 
and yelling, “Bad pony-men! BOO!” while Ella fluttered around him, reciting 
facts from the Old Farmer’s Almanac. 

As for Percy, he rode Mrs. O’Leary into battle with a chariot full of 
Imperial gold equipment clanking and clink ing behind, the golden eagle 
standard of the Twelfth Legion raised high above him. 

They skirted the perimeter of the camp and took the northernmost 
bridge over the Little Tiber, charging onto the Field of Mars at the western 
edge of the battle. A horde of Cyclopes was hammering away at the 
campers of the Fifth Cohort, who were trying to keep their shields locked 
just to stay alive. 

Seeing them in trouble, Percy felt a surge of protective rage. These 
were the kids who’d taken him in. This was his family. 

He shouted, “Fifth Cohort!” and slammed into the nearest Cyclops. 
The last things the poor monster saw were Mrs. O'Leary’s teeth. 

After the Cyclops disintegrated — and stayed disintegrated, thanks to 
Death — Percy leaped off his hellhound and slashed wildly through the other 
monsters. 

Tyson charged at the Cyclops leader, Ma Gasket, her chain-mail 



dress spattered with mud and decorated with broken spears. 

She gawked at Tyson and started to say, “Who — ?” 

Tyson hit her in the head so hard, she spun in a circle and landed on 
her rump. 

“Bad Cyclops Lady!” he bellowed. “General Tyson says GO AWAY!” 

He hit her again, and Ma Gasket broke into dust. 

Meanwhile Hazel charged around on Arion, slicing her spatha through 
one Cyclops after another, while Frank blinded the enemies with his talons. 

Once every Cyclops within fifty yards had been reduced to ashes, 
Frank landed in front of his troops and transformed into a human. His 
centurion's badge and Mural Crown gleamed on his winter jacket. 

“Fifth Cohort!” he bellowed. “Get your Imperial gold weapons right 
here!” 

The campers recovered from their shock and mobbed the chariot. 
Percy did his best to hand out equipment quickly. 

“Let’s go, let’s go!” Dakota urged, grinning like a madman as he 
swigged red Kool-Aid from his flask. “Our comrades need help!” 

Soon the Fifth Cohort was equipped with new weapons and shields 
and helmets. They weren’t exactly consistent. In fact they looked like they'd 
been shopping ata King Midas clearance sale. Buttheywere suddenly the 
most powerful cohort in the legion. 

“Follow the eagle!” Frank ordered. "To battle!” 

The campers cheered. As Percy and Mrs. O’Leary charged onward, 
the entire cohort followed — forty extremely shiny gold-plated warriors 
screaming for blood. 

They slammed into a herd of wild centaurs that were attacking the 
Third Cohort. When the campers of the Third saw the eagle standard, they 
shouted insanely and fought with renewed effort. 

The centaurs didn’t stand a chance. The two cohorts crushed them like 
a vise. Soon there was nothing left but piles of dust and assorted hooves 
and horns. Percy hoped Chiron would forgive him, but these centaurs 
weren't like the Party Ponies he'd met before. They were some other 
breed. They had to be defeated. 

“Form ranks!” the centurions shouted. The two cohorts came together, 



their military training kicking in. Shields locked, they marched into battle 
against the Earthborn. 

Frank shouted, “Pila!” 

A hundred spears bristled. When Frank yelled, "Fire!” they sailed 
through the air — a wave of death cutting through the six-armed monsters. 
The campers drew swords and advanced toward the center of the battle. 

At the base of the aqueduct, the First and Second Cohorts were trying 
to encircle Polybotes, but they were taking a pounding. The remaining 
Earthborn threw barrage after barrage of stone and mud. Karpoi grain 
spirits — those horrible little piranha Cupids — were rushing through the tall 
grass abducting campers at random, pulling them away from the line. The 
giant himself kept shaking basilisks out of his hair. Every time one landed, 
the Romans panicked and ran. Judging from their corroded shields and 
the smoking plumes on their helmets, they’d already learned about the 
basilisks' poison and fire. 

Reyna soared above the giant, diving in with her javelin whenever he 
turned his attention to the ground troops. Her purple cloak snapped in the 
wind. Her golden armor gleamed. Polybotes jabbed his trident and swung 
his weighted net, but Scipio was almost as nimble as Arion. 

Then Reyna noticed the Fifth Cohort marching to their aid with the 
eagle. She was so stunned, the giant almost swatted her out of the air, but 
Scipio dodged. Reyna locked eyes with Percy and gave him a huge smile. 

“Romans!” Her voice boomed across the fields. “Rally to the eagle!” 

Demigods and monsters alike turned and gawked as Percy bounded 
forward on his hellhound. 

“What is this?” Polybotes demanded. ‘What is this?” 

Percy felt a rush of power coursing through the standard’s staff. He 
raised the eagle and shouted, "Twelfth Legion Fulminata!” 

Thunder shook the valley. The eagle let loose a blinding flash, and a 
thousand tendrils of lightning exploded from its golden wings — arcing in 
front of Percy like the branches of an enormous deadly tree, connecting 
with the nearest monsters, leaping from one to another, completely 
ignoring the Roman forces. 

When the lightning stopped, the First and Second 




Cohorts were facing one surprised-looking giant and several hundred 
smoking piles of ash. The enemy’s center line had been charred to 
oblivion. 

The look on Octavian's face was priceless. The centurion stared at 
Percy with shock, then outrage. Then, when his own troops started to 
cheer, he had no choice except to join the shouting: “Rome! Rome!” 

The giant Polybotes backed up uncertainly, but Percy knew the battle 
wasn't over. 

The Fourth Cohort was still surrounded by Cyclopes. Even Hannibal 
the elephant was having a hard time wading through so many monsters. 
His black Kevlar armor was ripped so that his label just said ant. 

The veterans and Lares on the eastern flank were being pushed 
toward the city. The monsters' siege tower was still hurling explosive green 
fireballs into the streets. The gorgons had disabled the giant eagles and 
now flew unchallenged over the giant’s remaining centaurs and the 
Earthborn, trying to rally them. 

“Stand your ground!” Stheno yelled. “I've got free samples!” 

Polybotes bellowed. A dozen fresh basilisks fell out of his hair, turning 
the grass to poison yellow. "You think this changes anything, Percy 
Jackson? I cannot be destroyedICome forward, son of Neptune. I will 
break you!” 

Percy dismounted. He handed Dakota the standard. “You are the 
cohort's senior centurion. Take care of this.” Dakota blinked, then he 
straightened with pride. He dropped his Kool-Aid flask and took the eagle. 
“I will carry it with honor.” 

“Frank, Hazel, Tyson," Percy said, “help the Fourth Cohort. I've got a 
giant to kill.” 

He raised Riptide, but before he could advance, horns blew in the 
northern hills. Another army appeared on the ridge — hundreds of warriors 
in black-and-gray camouflage, armed with spears and shields. 
Interspersed among their ranks were a dozen battle forklifts, their 
sharpened tines gleaming in the sunset and flaming bolts nocked in their 
crossbows. 

“Amazons,” Frank said. “Great.” 




Polybotes laughed. “You, see? Our reinforcements have arrived! 
Rome will fall today!” 

The Amazons lowered their spears and charged down the hill. Their 
forklifts barreled into battle. The giant's army cheered — until the Amazons 
changed course and headed straight for the monsters' intact eastern flank. 

"Amazons, forward!” On the largest forklift stood a girl who looked like 
an older version of Reyna, in black combat armor with a glittering gold belt 
around her waist. 

“Queen Hylla!” said Hazel. “She survived!” 

The Amazon queen shouted: “To my sister’s aid! Destroy the 
monsters!” 

"Destroy!” Her troops' cry echoed through the valley. 

Reyna wheeled her pegasus toward Percy. Her eyes gleamed. Her 
expression said: / could hug you right now She shouted, “Romans! 
Advance!” 

The battlefield descended into absolute chaos. Amazon and Roman 
lines swung toward the enemy like the Doors of Death themselves. 

But Percy had only one goal. He pointed at the giant. 

“You. Me. To the finish.” 

They met by the aqueduct, which had somehow survived the battle so far. 
Polybotes fixed that. He swiped his trident and smashed the nearest brick 
arch, unleashing a waterfall. 

“Go on, then, son of Neptune!” Polybotes taunted. “Let me see your 
power! Does water do your bidding? Does it heal you? But I am born to 
oppose Neptune.” 

The giant thrust his hand under the water. As the torrent passed 
through his fingers it turned dark green. He flung some at Percy, who 
instinctively deflected it with his will. The liquid splattered the ground in front 
of him. With a nasty hiss, the grass withered and smoked. 

“My touch turns water to poison,” Polybotes said. “Let’s see what it 
does to your blood!” 

He threw his net at Percy, but Percy rolled out of the way. He diverted 
the waterfall straight into the giant’s face. While Polybotes was blinded, 




Percy charged. He plunged Riptide into the giant’s belly then withdrew it 
and vaulted away, leaving the giant roaring in pain. 

The strike would have dissolved any lesser monster, but Polybotes just 
staggered and looked down at the golden ichor — the blood of immortals 
— spilling from his wound. The cut was already closing. 

“Good try, demigod,” he snarled. "But I will break you still.” 

“Gotta catch me first,” Percy said. 

He turned and bolted toward the city. 

“What?” the giant yelled incredulously. “You run, coward? Stand still 
and die!” 

Percy had no intention of doing that. He knew he couldn't kill Polybotes 
alone. But he did have a plan. 

He passed Mrs. O'Leary, who looked up curiously with a gorgon 
wriggling in her mouth. 

“I’m fine!” Percy yelled as he ran by, followed by a giant screaming 
bloody murder. 

He jumped over a burning scorpion and ducked as Hannibal threw a 
Cyclops across his path. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Tyson 
pounding the Earthborn into the ground like a game of whack-a-mole. Ella 
was fluttering above him, dodging missiles and calling out advice: “The 
groin. The Earthborn's groin is sensitive.” 

SMASH! 

“Good. Yes. Tyson found its groin.” 

“Percy needs help?” Tyson called. 

“I’m good!” 

“Die!” Polybotes yelled, closing fast. Percy kept running. 

In the distance, he saw Hazel and Arion galloping across the 
battlefield, cutting down centaurs and karpoi. One grain spirit yelled, 
“Wheat! I'll give you wheat!” but Arion stomped him into a pile of breakfast 
cereal. Queen Hylla and Reyna joined forces, forklift and pegasus riding 
together, scattering the dark shades of fallen warriors. Frank turned himself 
into an elephant and stomped through some Cyclopes, and Dakota held 
the golden eagle high, blasting lightning at any monsters that dared to 




challenge the Fifth Cohort. 

All that was great, but Percy needed a different kind of help. He 
needed a god. 

He glanced back and saw the giant almost within arm’s reach. To buy 
some time, Percy ducked behind one of the aqueduct’s columns. The giant 
swung his trident. When the column crumbled, Percy used the unleashed 
water to guide the collapse — bringing down several tons of bricks on the 
giant’s head. 

Percy bolted for the city limits. 

“Terminus!” he yelled. 

The nearest statue of the god was about sixty feet ahead. His stone 
eyes snapped open as Percy ran toward him. 

“Completely unacceptable!” he complained. “Buildings on fire! 
Invaders! Get them out of here, Percy Jackson!” 

“I’m trying,” he said. “But there's this giant, Polybotes.” 

"Yes, I know! Wait — Excuse me a moment.” Terminus closed his eyes 
in concentration. A flaming green cannonball sailed overhead and 
suddenly vaporized. “I can’t stop all the missiles,” Terminus complained. 
“Why can't they be civilized and attack more slowly? I'm only one god.” 
“Help me kill the giant,” Percy said, “and this will all be over. A god and 
demigod working together — that's the only way to kill him.” 

Terminus sniffed. "I guard borders. I don’t kill giants. It’s not in my job 
description.” 

“Terminus, come on!" Percy took another step forward, and the god 
shrieked indignantly. 

“Stop right there, young man! No weapons inside the Pomerian Line!” 
“But we're under attack.” 

“I don’t care! Rules are rules. When people don’t follow the rules, I get 
very, very angry.” 

Percy smiled. “Hold that thought.” 

He sprinted back toward the giant. “Hey, ugly!” 

“Rarrr!” Polybotes burst from the ruins of the aqueduct. The water was 
still pouring over him, turning to poison and creating a steaming marsh 




around his feet. 

“You... you will die slowly,” the giant promised. He picked up his 
trident, now dripping with green venom. 

All around them, the battle was winding down. As the last monsters 
were mopped up, Percy’s friends started gathering, forming a ring around 
the giant. 

“I will take you prisoner, Percy Jackson,” Polybotes snarled. “I will 
torture you under the sea. Every day the water will heal you, and every day I 
will bring you closer to death.” 

“Great offer,” Percy said. “But I think I'll just kill you instead.” 

Polybotes bellowed in rage. He shook his head, and more basilisks 
flew from his hair. 

“Get back!” Frank warned. 

Fresh chaos spread through the ranks. Hazel spurred Arion and put 
herself between the basilisks and the campers. Frank changed form — 
shrinking into something lean and furry. ..a weasel? Percy thought Frank 
had lost his mind, but when Frank charged the basilisks, they absolutely 
freaked out. They slithered away with Frank chasing after them in hot 
weasely pursuit. 

Polybotes pointed his trident and ran toward Percy. As the giant 
reached the Pomerian Line, Percy jumped aside like a bullfighter. 
Polybotes barreled across the city limits. 

“THAT’S IT!” Terminus cried. “That’s AGAINST THE RULES!” 

Polybotes frowned, obviously confused that he was being told off by a 
statue. “What are you?” he growled. “Shut up!” 

He pushed the statue over and turned back to Percy. 

“Now I'm MAD!” Terminus shrieked. “I’m strangling you. Feel that? 
Those are my hands around your neck, you big bully. Get over here! I'm 
going to head-butt you so hard — ” 

“Enough!” The giant stepped on the statue and broke Terminus in 
three pieces — pedestal, body, and head. 

"You DIDN’T!” shouted Terminus. "Percy Jackson, you've got yourself 
a deal! Let’s kill this upstart.” 

The giant laughed so hard that he didn't realize Percy was charging 




until it was too late. Percy jumped up, vaulting off the giant’s knee, and 
drove Riptide straight through one of the metal mouths on Polybotes's 
breastplate, sinking the Celestial bronze hilt-deep in his chest. The giant 
stumbled backward, tripping over Terminus’s pedestal and crashing to the 
ground. 

While he was trying to get up, clawing at the sword in his chest, Percy 
hefted the head of the statue. 

"You'll never win!” the giant groaned. “You cannot defeat me alone.” 

“I’m not alone.” Percy raised the stone head above the giant’s face. 
“I’d like you to meet my friend Terminus. He's a god!” 

Too late, awareness and fear dawned in the giant’s face. Percy 
smashed the god’s head as hard as he could into the Polybotes’s nose, 
and the giant dissolved, crumbling into a steaming heap of seaweed, 
reptile skin, and poisonous muck. 

Percy staggered away, completely exhausted. 

“Ha!” said the head of Terminus. “That will teach him to obey the rules 
of Rome.” 

For a moment, the battlefield was silent except for a few fires burning, 
and a few retreating monsters screaming in panic. 

A ragged circle of Romans and Amazons stood around Percy. Tyson, 
Ella, and Mrs. O’Leary were there. Frank and Hazel were grinning at him 
with pride. Arion was nibbling contentedly on a golden shield. 

The Romans began to chant, "Percy! Percy!” 

They mobbed him. Before he knew it, they were raising him on a 
shield. The cry changed to, “Praetor! Praetor!” 

Among the chanters was Reyna herself, who held up her hand and 
grasped Percy’s in congratulation. Then the mob of cheering Romans 
carried him around the Pomerian Line, carefully avoiding Terminus's 
borders, and escorted him back home to Camp Jupiter. 




L I 



PERCY 



The Feast of Fortuna had nothing to do with tuna, which was fine with 
Percy. 

Campers, Amazons and Lares crowded the mess hall for a lavish 
dinner. Even the fauns were invited, since they’d helped out by bandaging 
the wounded after the battle. Wind nymphs zipped around the room, 
delivering orders of pizza, burgers, steaks, salads, Chinese food, and 
burritos, all flying at terminal velocity. 

Despite the exhausting battle, everyone was in good spirits. 
Casualties had been light, and the few campers who'd previously died and 
come back to life, like Gwen, hadn’t been taken to the Underworld. Maybe 
Thanatos had turned a blind eye. Or maybe Pluto had given those folks a 
pass, like he had for Hazel. Whatever the case, nobody complained. 

Colorful Amazon and Roman banners hung side-by-side from the 
rafters. The restored golden eagle stood proudly behind the praetor’s 
table, and the walls were decorated with cornucopias — magical horns of 
plenty that spilled out recycling waterfalls of fruit, chocolate, and fresh- 
baked cookies. 

The cohorts mingled freely with the Amazons, jumping from couch to 
couch as they pleased, and for once the soldiers of the Fifth were welcome 
everywhere. Percy changed seats so many times, he lost track of his 
dinner. 

There was a lot of flirting and arm-wrestling — which seemed to be the 
same thing for the Amazons. At one point Percy was cornered by Kinzie, 
the Amazon who’d disarmed him in Seattle. He had to explain that he 



already had a girlfriend. Fortunately Kinzie took it well. She told him what 
had happened after they’d left Seattle — how Hylla had defeated her 
challenger Otrera in two consecutive duels to the death, so that the 
Amazons were now calling their queen Hylla Twice-Kill. 

“Otrera stayed dead the second time,” Kinzie said, batting her eyes. 
“We have you to thank for that. If you ever need a new girlfriend... well, I 
think you'd look great in an iron collar and an orange jumpsuit.” 

Percy couldn’t tell if she was kidding or not. He politely thanked her 
and changed seats. 

Once everyone had eaten and the plates stopped flying, Reyna made 
a short speech. She formally welcomed the Amazons, thanking them for 
their help. Then she hugged her siste rand everybody applauded. 

Reyna raised her hands for quiet. “My sister and I haven’t always seen 
eye to eye — ” 

Hylla laughed. “That's an understatement.” 

“She joined the Amazons,” Reyna continued. “I joined Camp Jupiter. 
But looking around this room, I think we both made good choices. 
Strangely, our destinies were made possible by the hero you all just raised 
to praetor on the battlefield — Percy Jackson.” 

More cheering. The sisters raised their glasses to Percy and 
beckoned him forward. 

Everybody asked for a speech, but Percy didn’t know what to say. He 
protested that he really wasn't the best person for praetor, but the campers 
drowned him out with applause. Reyna took away his probatio neck plate. 
Octavian shot him a dirty look, then turned to the crowd and smiled like this 
was all his idea. He ripped open a teddy bear and pronounced good 
omens for the coming year — Fortuna would bless them! He passed his 
hand over Percy’s arm and shouted: “Percy Jackson, son of Neptune, first 
year of service!” 

The Roman symbols burned onto Percy’s arm: a trident, spqr, and a 
single stripe. It felt like someone was pressing a hot iron into his skin, but 
Percy managed not to scream. 

Octavian embraced him and whispered, “I hope it hurt.” 

Then Reyna gave him an eagle medal and purple cloak, symbols of 




the praetor. “You earned these, Percy.” 

Queen Hylla pounded him on the back. “And I’ve decided not to kill 
you.” 

"Um, thanks,” Percy said. 

He made his way around the mess hall one more time, because all the 
campers wanted him at their table. Vitellius the Lar followed, stumbling 
over his shimmering purple toga and readjusting his sword, telling 
everyone how he'd predicted Percy’s rise to greatness. 

“I demanded he join the Fifth Cohort!” the ghost said proudly. “Spotted 
his talent right away!” 

Don the faun popped up in a nurse's hat, a stack of cookies in each 
hand. “Man, congrats and stuff! Awesome! Hey, do you have any spare 
change?” 

All the attention embarrassed Percy, but he was happy to see how well 
Hazel and Frank were being treated. Everyone called them the saviors of 
Rome, and they deserved it. There was even talk about reinstating Frank's 
great-grandfather, Shen Lun, to the legion’s roll of honor. Apparently he 
hadn't caused the 1906 earthquake after all. 

Percy sat for a while with Tyson and Ella, who were honored guests at 
Dakota's table. Tyson kept calling for peanut-butter sandwiches, eating 
them as fast as the nymphs could deliver. Ella perched at his shoulder on 
top of the couch and nibbled furiously on cinnamon rolls. 

“Cinnamon rolls are good for harpies,” she said. “June twenty-fourth is 
a good day. Roy Disney’s birthday, and Fortuna’s Feast, and 
Independence Day for Zanzibar. And Tyson.” 

She glanced at Tyson, then blushed and looked away. 

After dinner, the entire legion got the night off. Percy and hisfriends drifted 
down to the city, which wasn’t quite recovered from the battle, but the fires 
were out, most of the debris had been swept up, and the citizens were 
determined to celebrate. 

At the Pomerian Line, the statue of Terminus wore a paper party hat. 

“Welcome, praetor!” he said. “You need any giants’ faces smashed 
while you’re in town, just let me know.”“Thanks, Terminus,” Percy said. “I’ll 




keep that in mind.” 

"Yes, good. Your praetor’s cape is an inch too low on the left. There — 
that’s better. Where is my assistant? Julia!” 

The little girl ran out from behind the pedestal. She was wearing a 
green dress tonight, and her hair was still in pigtails. When she smiled, 
Percy saw that her front teeth were starting to come in. She held up a box 
full of party hats. 

Percy tried to decline, but Julia gave him the big adoring eyes. 

"Ah, sure,” he said. “I’ll take the blue crown.” 

She offered Hazel a gold pirate hat. “I’m gonna be Percy Jackson 
when I grow up,” she told Hazel solemnly. 

Hazel smiled and ruffled her hair. “That's a good thing to be, Julia.” 

"Although,” Frank said, picking out a hat shaped like apolar bear's 
head, “Frank Zhang would be good too.” 

“Frank!” Hazel said. 

They put on their hats and continued to the forum, which was lit up with 
multicolored lanterns. The fountains glowed purple. The coffee shops were 
doing a brisk business, and street musicians filled the air with the sounds 
of guitar, lyre, panpipes, and armpit noises. (Percy didn’t get that last one. 
Maybe it was an old Roman musical tradition.) 

The goddess Iris must’ve been in a party mood too. As Percy and his 
friends strolled past the damaged Senate House, a dazzling rainbow 
appeared in the night sky. Unfortunately the goddess sent another 
blessing, too — a gentle rain of gluten-free R.O.F.L. cupcake simulations, 
which Percy figured would either make cleaning up harder, or rebuilding 
easier. The cupcakes would make great bricks. 

For a while, Percy wandered the streets with Hazel and Frank, who 
kept brushing shoulders. 

Finally he said, “I’m a little tired, guys. You go ahead.” 

Hazel and Frank protested, but Percy could tell they wanted some time 
alone. 

As he headed back to camp, he saw Mrs. O’Leary playing with 
Hannibal in the Field of Mars. Finally, she’d found a playmate she could 
roughhouse with. They frolicked around, slamming into each other, 




breaking fortifications, and generally having an excellent time. 

At the fort gates, Percy stopped and gazed across the valley. It 
seemed like so long ago that he’d stood here with Hazel, getting his first 
good view of camp. Now he was more interested in watching the eastern 
horizon. 

Tomorrow, maybe the next day, his friends from Camp 

Half-Blood would arrive. As much as he cared about Camp Jupiter, he 
couldn't wait to see Annabeth again. He yearned for his old life — New York 
and Camp Half-Blood — but something told him it might be a while before 
he returned home. Gaea and the giants weren't done causing trouble — not 
by a long shot. 

Reyna had given him the second praetor’s house on the Via 
Principalis, but as soon as Percy looked inside, he knew he couldn’t stay 
there. It was nice, but it was also full of Jason Grace’s stuff. Percy already 
felt uneasy taking Jason’s title of praetor. He didn’t want to take the guy's 
house, too. Things would be awkward enough when Jason came back — 
and Percy was sure that he would be on that dragon-headed warship. 

Percy headed back to the Fifth Cohort barracks and climbed into his 
bunk. He passed out instantly. 

He dreamed he was carrying Juno across the Little Tiber. 

She was disguised as a crazy old bag lady, smiling and singing an 
Ancient Greek lullaby as her leathery hands gripped Percy’s neck. 

"Do you still want to slap me, dear?” she asked. 

Percy stopped midstream. He let go and dumped the goddess in the 
river. 

The moment she hit the water, she vanished and reappeared on the 
shore. “Oh, my,” she cackled, “that wasn't very heroic, even in a dream!” 

“Eight months,” Percy said. "You stole eight months of my life for a 
quest that took a week. Why?” 

Juno tutted disapprovingly. “You mortals and your short lives. Eight 
months is nothing, my dear. I lost eight centuries once, missed most of the 
Byzantine Empire.” 

Percy summoned the power of the river. It swirled around him, 




spinning into a froth of Whitewater. 

“Now, now,” Juno said. “Don't get testy. If we are to defeat Gaea, our 
plans must be timed perfectly. First, I needed Jason and his friends to free 
me from my prison — ” 

“Your prison? You were in prison and they let you out?” 

"Don't sound so surprised, dear! I’m a sweet old woman. At any rate, 
you weren’t needed at Camp Jupiter until now, to save the Romans at their 
moment of greatest crisis. The eight months between... well, I do have 
other plans brewing, my boy. Opposing Gaea, working behind Jupiter's 
back, protecting your friends — it’s a full-time job! If I had to guard you from 
Gaea's monsters and schemes as well, and keep you hidden from your 
friends back east all that time — no, much better you take a safe nap. You 
would have been a distraction — a loose cannon.” 

"A distraction.” Percy felt the water rising with his anger, spinning 
faster around him. “A loose cannon.” 

“Exactly. I’m glad you understand.” 

Percy sent a wave crashing down on the old woman, but Juno simply 
disappeared and materialized farther down the shore. 

“My,” she said, “you are in a bad mood. But you know I'm right. Your 
timing here was perfect. They trust you now. You are a hero of Rome. And 
while you slept, Jason Grace has learned to trust the Greeks. They’ve had 
time to build the Argo II. Together, you and Jason will unite the camps.” 
“Why me?” Percy demanded. “You and I never got along. Why would 
you want a loose cannon on your team?” 

“Because I knowyou, Percy Jackson. In many ways, you are impulsive, 
but when it comes to your friends, you are as constant as a compass 
needle. You are unswervingly loyal, and you inspire loyalty. You are the glue 
that will unite the seven.” 

“Great,” Percy said. “I always wanted to be glue.” 

Juno laced her crooked fingers. “The Heroes of Olympus must unite! 
After your victory over Kronos in Manhattan... well, I fear that wounded 
Jupiter's self-esteem.” 

"Because I was right,” Percy said. “And he was wrong.” 

The old lady shrugged. “He should be used to that, after so many eons 




married to me, but alas! My proud and obstinate husband refuses to ask 
mere demigods for help again. He believes the giants can be fought 
without you, and Gaea can be forced back to her slumbers. I know better. 
But you must prove yourself. Only by sailing to the ancient lands and 
closing the Doors of Death will you convince Jupiter that you are worthy of 
fighting side-by-side with the gods. It will be the greatest quest since 
Aeneas sailed from Troy!” 

"And if we fail?” Percy said. “If Romans and Greeks don't get along?” 

"Then Gaea has already won. I'll tell you this, Percy Jackson. The one 
who will cause you the most trouble is the one closest to you — the one who 
hates me most.” 

"Annabeth?” Percy felt his anger rising again. “You never liked her. 
Now you’re calling her a troublemaker? You don't know her at all. She’s the 
person I most want watching my back.” 

The goddess smiled dryly. “We will see, young hero. She has a hard 
task ahead of her when you arrive in Rome. Whether she is up to it... I do 
not know.” 

Percy summoned a fist of water and smashed it down at the old lady. 
When the wave receded, she was gone. 

The river swirled out of Percy’s control. He sank into the darkness of 
the whirlpool. 




L I I 



PERCY 



The next morning Percy, Hazel, and Frank ate break fast early, then 
headed into the city before the senate was due to convene. As Percy was 
a praetor now, he could go pretty much wherever he wanted, whenever he 
wanted. 

On the way, they passed the stables, where Tyson and Mrs. O'Leary 
were sleeping in. Tyson snored on a bed of hay next to the unicorns, a 
blissful look on his face like he was dreaming of ponies. Mrs. O’Leary had 
rolled on her back and covered her ears with her paws. On the stable roof, 
Ella roosted in a pile of old Roman scrolls, her head tucked under her 
wings. 

When they got to the forum, they sat by the fountains and watched the 
sun come up. The citizens were already busy sweeping up cupcake 
simulations, confetti, and party hats from last night’s celebration. The 
engineer corps was working on a new arch that would commemorate the 
victory over Polybotes. 

Hazel said she'd even heard talk of a formal triumph for the three of 
them — a parade around the city followed by a week of games and 
celebrations — but Percy knew they’d never get the chance. They didn’t 
have time. 

Percy told them about his dream of Juno. 

Hazel frowned. “The gods were busy last night. Show him, Frank.” 

Frank reached into his coat pocket. Percy thought he might bring out 
his piece of firewood, but instead he produced a thin paperback book and 



a note on red stationery. 

"These were on my pillow this morning.” He passed them to Percy. 
“Like the Tooth Fairy visited.” 

The book was The Art of War by Sun Tzu. Percy had never heard of it, 
but he could guess who sent it. The letter read: Good job, kid. A real man’s 
best weapon is his mind. This was your mom’s favorite book. Give it a 
read. P. S . — / hope your friend Percy has learned some respect for me. 

“Wow.” Percy handed back the book. “Maybe Mars is different than 
Ares. I don't think Ares can read.” 

Frank flipped through the pages. “There’s a lot in hereabout sacrifice, 
knowing the cost of war. Back in Vancouver, Mars told me I’d have to put 
my duty ahead of my life or the entire war would go sideways. I thought he 
meant freeing Thanatos, but now. ..I don’t know. I'm still alive, so maybe the 
worst is yet to come.” 

He glanced nervously at Percy, and Percy got the feeling Frank wasn't 
telling him everything. He wondered if Mars had said something about him, 
but Percy wasn't sure he wanted to know. 

Besides, Frank had already given enough. He had watched his family 
home burn down. He'd lost his mother and his grandmother. 

"You risked your life,” Percy said. “You were willing to burn up to save 
the quest. Mars can't expect more than that.” 

“Maybe,” Frank said doubtfully. 

Hazel squeezed Frank's hand. 

They seemed more comfortable around each other this morning, not 
quite as nervous and awkward. Percy wondered if they’d started dating. 
He hoped so, but he decided it was better not to ask. 

“Hazel, how about you?” Percy asked. “Any word from Pluto?” 

She looked down. Several diamonds popped out of the ground at her 
feet. “No,” she admitted. “In a way, I think he sent a message through 
Thanatos. My name wasn’t on that list of escaped souls. It should have 
been.” 

“You think your dad is giving you a pass?” Percy asked. 

Hazel shrugged. “Pluto can't visit me or even talk to me without 




acknowledging I'm alive. Then he’d have to enforce the laws of death and 
have Thanatos bring me back to the Underworld. I think my dad is turning a 
blind eye. I think — I think he wants me to find Nico.” 

Percy glanced at the sunrise, hoping to see a warship descending 
from the sky. So far, nothing. 

“We'll find your brother,” Percy promised. “As soon as the ship gets 
here, we'll sail for Rome.” 

Hazel and Frank exchanged uneasy looks, like they'd already talked 
about this. 

"Percy...” Frank said. “If you want us to come along, we're in. But are 
you sure? I mean... we know you've got tons of friends at the other camp. 
And you could pick anyone at Camp Jupiter now. if we’re not part of the 
seven, we'd understand — ” 

"Are you kidding?" Percy said. “You think I’d leave my team behind? 
After surviving Fleecy’s wheat germ, running from cannibals, and hiding 
under blue giant butts in Alaska? Come on!” 

The tension broke. All three of them started cracking up, maybe a little 
too much, but it was a relief to be alive, with the warm sun shining, and not 
worrying — at least for the moment — about sinister faces appearing in the 
shadows of the hills. 

Hazel took a deep breath. “The prophecy Ella gave us — about the 
child of wisdom, and the mark of Athena burning through Rome... do you 
know what that’s about?” 

Percy remembered his dream. Juno had warned that Annabeth had a 
difficult job ahead of her, and that she’d cause trouble for the quest. He 
couldn't believe that, but still. ..it worried him. 

“I’m not sure,” he admitted. “I think there’s more to the prophecy. 
Maybe Ella can remember the rest of it.” 

Frank slipped his book into his pocket. “We need to take her with us — 
I mean, for her own safety. If Octavian finds out Ella has the Sibylline Books 
memorized...” 

Percy shuddered. Octavian used prophecies to keep his power at 
camp. Now that Percy had taken away his chance at praetor, Octavian 
would be looking for other ways to exert influence. If he got hold of Ella... 




"You're right,” Percy said. “We've got to protect her. I just hope we can 
convince her — ” 

"Percy!” Tyson came running across the forum, Ella fluttering behind 
him with a scroll in her talons. When they reached the fountain, Ella 
dropped the scroll in Percy’s lap. 

“Special delivery,” she said. “From an aura. A wind spirit. 

Yes, Ella got a special delivery.” 

“Good morning, brothers!” Tyson had hay in his hair and peanut butter 
in his teeth. "The scroll is from Leo. He is funny and small.” 

The scroll looked unremarkable, but when Percy spread it across his 
lap, a video recording flickered on the parchment. A kid in Greek armor 
grinned up at them. He had an impish face, curly black hair, and wild eyes, 
like he’d just had several cups of coffee. He was sitting in a dark room with 
timber walls like a ship’s cabin. Oil lamps swung back and forth on the 
ceiling. 

Hazel stifled a scream. 

"What?” Frank asked. “What's wrong?” 

Slowly, Percy realized the curly-haired kid looked familiar — and not 
just from his dreams. He'd seen that face in an old photo. 

“Hey!” said the guy in the video. “Greetings from your friends at Camp 
Half-Blood, et cetera. This is Leo. I'm the...” He looked off screen and 
yelled: “What's my title? Am I like admiral, or captain, or — ” 

A girl's voice yelled back, “Repair boy.” 

“Very funny, Piper,” Leo grumbled. He turned back to the parchment 
screen. “So yeah, I’m ... ah ... supreme commander of the Argo II. Yeah, I 
like that! Anyway, we’re gonna be sailing toward you in about, I dunno, an 
hour in this big mother warship. We’d appreciate it if you'd not, like, blow 
us out of the sky or anything. So okay! If you could tell the Romans that. 
See you soon. Yours in demigodishness, and all that. Peace out.” 

The parchment turned blank. 

“It can't be,” Hazel said. 

"What?” Frank asked. “You know that guy?” 

Hazel looked like she'd seen a ghost. Percy understood why. He 
remembered the photo in Hazel’s abandoned house in Seward. The kid on 




the warship looked exactly like Hazel's old boyfriend. 

“It’s Sammy Valdez,” she said. "But how... how — ” 

“It can’t be,” Percy said. “That guy’s name is Leo. And it’s been 
seventy-something years. It has to be a...” 

He wanted to say a coincidence, but he couldn’t make himself believe 
that. Over the past few years he’d seen a lot of things: destiny, prophecy, 
magic, monsters, fate. But he'd never yet run across a coincidence. 

They were interrupted by horns blowing in the distance. The senators 
came marching into the forum with Reyna at the lead. 

“It’s meeting time,” Percy said. “Come on. We’ve got to warn them 
about the warship.” 

“Why should we trust these Greeks?” Octavian was saying. 

He'd been pacing the senate floor for five minutes, going on and on, 
trying to counter what Percy had told them about Juno’s plan and the 
Prophecy of Seven. 

The senate shifted restlessly, but most of them were too afraid to 
interrupt Octavian while he was on a roll. Meanwhile the sun climbed in the 
sky, shining through the broken senate roof and giving Octavian a natural 
spotlight. 

The Senate House was packed. Queen Hylla, Frank, and Hazel sat in 
the front row with the senators. Veterans and ghosts filled the back rows. 
Even Tyson and Ella had been allowed to sit in the back. Tyson kept 
waving and grinning at Percy. 

Percy and Reyna occupied matching praetors’ chairs on the dais, 
which made Percy self-conscious. It wasn’t easy looking dignified wearing 
a bed sheet and a purple cape. 

"The camp is safe,” Octavian continued. “I’ll be the first to congratulate 
our heroes for bringing back the legion's eagle and so much Imperial gold! 
Truly we have been blessed with good fortune. But why do more? Why 
tempt fate?” 

“I'm glad you asked.” Percy stood, taking the question as an opening. 

Octavian stammered, “I wasn't — ” 




“ — part of the quest,” Percy said. “Yes, I know. And you're wise to let 
me explain, since I was.” 

Some of the senators snickered. Octavian had no choice but to sit 
down and try not to look embarrassed. 

"Gaea is waking,” Percy said. “We’ve defeated two of her giants, but 
that’s only the beginning. The real war will take place in the old land of the 
gods. The quest will take us to Rome, and eventually to Greece.” 

An uneasy ripple spread through the senate. 

“I know, I know,” Percy said. “You've always thought of the Greeks as 
your enemies. And there’s a good reason for that. I think the gods have 
kept our two camps apart because whenever we meet, we fight. But that 
can change. It has to change if we’re to defeat Gaea. That's what the 
Prophecy of Seven means. Seven demigods, Greek and Roman, will have 
to close the Doors of Death together.” 

“Ha!” shouted a Larfrom the back row. “The last time a praetor tried to 
interpret the Prophecy of Seven, it was Michael Varus, who lost our eagle 
in Alaska! Why should we believe you now?” 

Octavian smiled smugly. Some of his allies in the senate began 
nodding and grumbling. Even some of the veterans looked uncertain. 

"I carried Juno across the Tiber,” Percy reminded them, speaking as 
firmly as he could. “She told me that the Prophecy of Seven is coming to 
pass. Mars also appeared to you in person. Do you think two of your most 
important gods would appear at camp if the situation wasn't serious?” 

“He's right,” Gwen said from the second row. “I, for one, trust Percy’s 
word. Greek or not, he restored the honor of the legion. You saw him on the 
battlefield last niqht. Would anyone here say he is not a true hero of 
Rome?” 

Nobody argued. A few nodded in agreement. 

Reyna stood. Percy watched her anxiously. Her opinion could change 
everything — for better or worse. 

"You claim this is a combined quest,” she said. “You claim Juno 
intends for us to work with this — this other group, Camp 

Half-Blood. Yet the Greeks have been our enemies for eons. 

They are known for their deceptions.” 




“Maybe so,” Percy said. “But enemies can become friends. A week 
ago, would you have thought Romans and Amazons would be fighting side 
by side?” 

Queen Hylla laughed. “He's got a point.” 

"The demigods of Camp Half-Blood have already been working with 
Camp Jupiter,” Percy said. “We just didn’t realize it. During the Titan War 
last summer, while you were attacking Mount Othrys, we were defending 
Mount Olympus in Manhattan. I fought Kronos myself.” 

Reyna backed up, almost tripping over her toga. "You... what?’ 

“I know it’s hard to believe,” Percy said. "But I think I've earned your 
trust. I’m on your side. Hazel and Frank — I’m sure they’re meant to go with 
me on this quest. The other four are on their way from Camp Half-Blood 
right now. One of them is Jason Grace, your old praetor.” 

“Oh, come on!” Octavian shouted. “He's making things up, now.” 

Reyna frowned. “It is a lot to believe. Jason is coming back with a 
bunch of Greek demigods? You say they're going to appear in the sky in a 
heavily armed warship, but we shouldn't be worried.” 

“Yes.” Percy looked over the rows of nervous, doubtful spectators. 
“Just let them land. Hear them out. Jason will backup everything I'm telling 
you. I swear it on my life.” 

“On your life?” Octavian looked meaningfully at the senate. “We will 
remember that, if this turns out to be a trick.” 

Right on cue, a messenger rushed into the Senate House, gasping as 
if he'd run all the way from camp. "Praetors! I'm sorry to interrupt, but our 
scouts report — ” 

“Ship!” Tyson said happily, pointing at the hole in the ceiling. “Yay! 

Sure enough, a Greek warship appeared out of the clouds, about a 
half a mile away, descending toward the Senate House. As it got closer, 
Percy could see bronze shields glinting along the sides, billowing sails, 
and a familiar-looking figurehead shaped like a metal dragon. On the 
tallest mast, a big white flag of truce snapped in the wind. 

The Argo II. It was the most incredible ship he'd ever seen. 

"Praetors!” the messenger cried. “What are your orders?” 

Octavian shot to his feet. “You need to ask?” His face was red with 




rage. He was strangling his teddy bear. "The omens are horrible ! This is a 
trick, a deception. Beware Greeks bearing gifts!” 

He jabbed a finger at Percy. “His friends are attacking in a warship. 
He has fed them here. We must attack!” 

"No,” Percy said firmly. “You all raised me as praetor for a reason. I will 
fight to defend this camp with my life. But these aren’t enemies. I say we 
stand ready, but do not attack. Let them land. Let them speak. If it is a trick, 
then I will fight with you, as I did last night. But it is not a trick.” 

All eyes turned toward Reyna. 

She studied the approaching warship. Her expression hardened. If 
she vetoed Percy’s orders... well, he didn’t know what would happen. 
Chaos and confusion, at the very least. 

Most likely, the Romans would follow her lead. She’d been their leader 
much longer than Percy. 

"Hold your fire,” Reyna said. “But have the legion stand ready. Percy 
Jackson is your duly chosen praetor. We will trus this word — unless we are 
given clear reason not to. Senators, let us adjourn to the forum and meet 
our. ..new friends.” 

The senators stampeded out of the auditorium — whether from 
excitement or panic, Percy wasn’t sure. Tyson ran after them, yelling, “Yay! 
Yay!” with Ella fluttering around his head. 

Octavian gave Percy a disgusted look, then threw down his teddy bear 
and followed the crowd. 

Reyna stood at Percy’s shoulder. 

“I support you, Percy,” she said. “I trust your judgment. But for all our 
sakes, I hope we can keep the peace between our campers and your 
Greek friends.” 

“We will,” he promised. “You'll see.” 

She glanced up at the warship. Her expression turned a little wistful. 
“You say Jason is aboard... I hope that’s true. 

I've missed him.” 

She marched outside, leaving Percy alone with Hazel and Frank. 

“They're coming down right in the forum,” Frank said nervously. 




"Terminus is going to have a heart attack.” 

"Percy,” Hazel said, “you swore on your life. Romans take that 
seriously. If anything goes wrong, even by accident, Octavian is going to kill 
you. You know that, right?” 

Percy smiled. He knew the stakes were high. He knew this day could 
go horribly wrong. But he also knew that Annabeth was on that ship. If 
things went right, this would be the best day of his life. 

He threw one arm around Hazel and one arm around Frank. 

“Come on,” he said. “Let me introduce you to my otfjerfamily.” 




Glossary 



absurdus out of place, discordant 

Achilles the mightiest of the Greek demigods who fought in the Trojan 
War 

Aesculapius the Roman god of medicine and healing 

Alcyoneus the eldest of the giants born to Gaea, destined to fight Pluto 

Amazons a nation of all-female warriors 

Anaklusmos Riptide. The name of Percy Jackson's sword. 

argentum silver 

Argonauts a band of Greek heroes who accompanied Jason on his quest 
to find the Golden Fleece. Their name comes from their ship, the 
Argo, which was named after its builder, Argus, 
augury a sign of something coming, an omen; the practice of divining the 
future 

aurae invisible wind spirits 
aurum gold 

basilisk snake, literally “little crown” 

Bellerophon a Greek demigod, son of Poseidon, whodefeated monsters 
while riding on Pegasus 
Bellona the Roman goddess of war 

Byzantium the eastern empire that lasted another 1,000 years after 
Rome fell, under Greek influence 
Celestial bronze a rare metal deadly to monsters 
Centaur a race of creatures that is half human, half horse 
centurion an officer of the Roman army 

Cerberus the three-headed dog that guards the gates ofthe Underworld 
Ceres the Roman goddess of agriculture 




Charon the ferryman of Hades who carries souls of thenewly deceased 
across the rivers Styx and Acheron, which divide the world of the living 
from the world of the dead 
cognomen third name 
cohort a Roman military unit 

Cyclops a member of a primordial race of giants (Cyclopes, pi.), each 
with a single eye in the middle of his or herforehead 
denarius (denarii, pi.) the most common coin in the Roman currency 
system 

drachma the silver coin of ancient Greece 

Elysium the final resting place of the souls of the heroic and the virtuous in 
the Underworld 

Erebos a place of darkness between Earth and Hades 
faun a Roman forest god, part goat and part man. Greek form: satyr 
Fields of Asphodel the section of the Underworld where the souls of 
people who lived lives of equal good and evil rest 
Fields of Punishment the section of the Underworld where evil souls are 
eternally tortured 

Fortuna the Roman goddess of fortune and good luck 
Fulminata armed with lightning. A Roman legion under Julius Caesar 
whose emblem was a lightning bolt ( fulmen ). 

Gaea the earth goddess; mother of Titans, giants, Cyclopes, and other 
monsters. Known to the Romans as Terra 
Gegenes earthborn monsters 
gladius a short sword 

gorgons three monstrous sisters (Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa) who 
have hair of living, venomous snakes; Medusa’s eyes can turn the 
beholder to stone 
graecus Greek; enemy; outsider 
greaves shin armor 

gris-gris a voodoo amulet that protects from evil or brings luck 
harpy a winged female creature that snatches things 




Hercules the Roman equivalent of Heracles; the son of Jupiter and 
Alcmene, who was born with great strength 
Hyperboreans peaceful northern giants 
ichorVne golden blood of immortals 

Imperial gold a rare metal deadly to monsters, consecrated at the 
Pantheon; its existence was a closely guarded secret of the emperors 
Iris the rainbow goddess 

Juno Roman goddess of women, marriage, and fertility; sister and wife of 
Jupiter; mother of Mars. Greek form: Hera 
Jupiter Roman king of the gods; also called Jupiter Optimus Maximus (the 
best and the greatest). Greek form: Zeus 
karpoi grain spirits 

Laistrygonians tall cannibals from the north, possibly the source of the 
Sasquatch legend 

Lar house god, ancestral spirit (Lares, pi.) 

legion the major unit of the Roman army, consisting of infantry and cavalry 
troops 

legionnaire a member of a legion 

Liberalia a Roman festival that celebrated a boy’s rite of passage into 
manhood 

Lupa the sacred Roman she-wolf that nursed the foundling twins Romulus 
and Remus 

Mars the Roman god of war; also called Mars Ultor. Patronof the empire; 

divine father of Romulus and Remus. Greekform: Ares 
Minerva Roman goddess of wisdom. Greek form: Athena 
Mist magic force that disguises things from mortals 
Mount Othrys the base of the Titans during the ten-year war with the 
Olympian gods; Saturn's headquarters 
muster formal military inspection 
nebulae cloud nymphs 

Neptune the Roman god of the sea. Greekform: Poseidon 




Otrera first Amazon queen, daughter of Ares 
pallium a cloak or mantle worn by the Romans 
Pantheon a temple to all the gods of Ancient Rome 
Penthesilea a queen of the Amazons; daughter of Ares andOtrera, 
another Amazon queen 

Periclymenus a Greek prince of Pylos and a son ofPoseidon, who 
granted him the ability to shape-shift. He was renowned for his 
strength and participated in the voyage of the Argonauts. 

Phineas a son of Poseidon, who had the gift of prophecy. When he 
revealed too much of the plans of the gods, Zeuspunished him by 
blinding him. 
pilum a Roman spear 

Pluto the Roman god of death and riches. Greek equivalent: Hades 

Polybotes the giant son of Gaea, the Earth Mother 

praetor an elected Roman magistrate and commander of the army 

Priam the king of Troy during the Trojan War 

principia the headquarters of a Roman camp 

probatio testing period for a new recruit in a legion 

pugio a Roman dagger 

Queen Hippolyta’s belt Hippolyta wore a golden waist belt, a gift from 
her father, Ares, that signified her Amazonian queenship and also 
gave her strength. 

retiarius Roman gladiator who fought with a net and trident 
River Styx the river that forms the boundary betweenEarth and the 
Underworld 

Romulus and Remus the twin sons of Mars and the priestess Rhea 
Silvia who were thrown into the RiverTiber by their human father, 
Amulius. They were rescued and raised by a she-wolf and, upon 
reaching adulthood, founded Rome. 

Saturn the Roman god of agriculture, the son of Uranus and Gaea and the 
father of Jupiter. Greek equivalentKronos 
scorpion ballista a Roman missile siege weapon that launched a large 




projectile at a distant target 

Senatus Populusque Romanus (spqr) “The Senate and People of 
Rome”; refers to the government of the Roman Republic and is used 
as an official emblem of Rome 
shades spirits 

Sibylline Books a collection of prophecies in rhyme writtenin Greek. 
Tarquinius Superbus, a king of Rome, bought them from a prophetess 
named Sibyl and consulted them in times of great danger. 
spartus a skeleton warrior 
spatha a cavalry sword 

Stygian iron like Celestial bronze and Imperial gold, amagical metal 
capable of killing monsters 

Tartarus husband of Gaea; spirit of the abyss; father of the giants; also the 
lowest region of the world 

Terminus the Roman god of boundaries and landmarks 

Thanatos the Greek god of death. Roman equivalent: Letus 

Tiber River the third-longest river in Italy. Rome wasfounded on its banks. 

In ancient Rome, executed criminals were thrown into the river, 
trireme a type of warship 

triumph a ceremonial procession for Roman generals and their troops in 
celebration of a great military victory 

Trojan War the war that was waged against the city of Troyby the Greeks 
after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband, Menelaus, the king of 
Sparta. It started with a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, 
and Aphrodite. 




Coming Fall 2012 

The Heroes of Olympus, Book Three 
THE MARK OF ATHENA 




Praise for The Percy Jackson Series by Rick 
Riordan: 



The Lightning Thief 

"Perfectly paced, with electrifying moments chasing each other like 
heartbeats.” 

— The NewYork Times Book Review 



The Sea of Monsters 

★ “In a feat worthy of his heroic subjects, Riordan crafts a sequel 
stronger than his compelling debut.” 

— Publishers Weekly (starred review) 

The Titan’s Curse 

“All in all, a winner of Olympic proportions.” 

— School Library Journal 

The Battle of the Labyrinth 

★ “Look no further for the next Harry Potter; meet Percy Jackson, as 
legions of fans already have.” 

— Kirkus Review (starred review) 



The Last Olympian 

"The hordes of young readers who have devoured Rick Riordan's books... 
will no doubt gulp down this concluding volume as greedily as they would a 
plateful of ambrosia, or maybe pizza.” 

— The Wall Street Journal 




Praise for The Kane Chronicles by Rick Riordan: 



The Red Pyramid 

★ "The first volume in the Kane Chronicles, this fantasy adventure delivers 
what fans loved about the Percy Jackson and the Olympians series: young 
protagonists with previously unsuspected magical powers, a riveting story 
marked by headlong adventure, a complex background rooted in ancient 
mythology, and wry, witty twenty-first-century narration.” 

— ALA Booklist (starred review) 

“Riordan fans young and old will eat this new book up.” 

— The NewYork Times Book Review 

"Fans of the Riordan magic — equal parts danger, myth, and irreverence — 
will embrace this new series with open arms.” 

— Horn Book 

"This tale explodes into action from chapter one.. ..Readers pining for 
Percy Jackson will find new heroes in Carter and Sadie Kane.” 

— Kirkus Review 

“Once again, Riordan masterfully meshes modern life with mythology and 
history, reinvigorating dusty artifacts such as the Rosetta stone and 
revitalizing ancient Egyptian story lines.” 

— The Los Angeles Times 

★ "A truly original take on Egyptian mythology. ..A must-have book.” 

— School Library Journal (starred review) 




The Throne of Fire 



★ “...Riordan kickstarts the action, never lets up on the gas, balances 
laughs and losses with a sure hand, and expertly sets up the coming 
climactic struggle without (thankfully) ending on a cliff-hanger. It’s a grand 
ride so far, showing nary a sign of slowing down.” 

— School Library Journal (starred review) 

"As in his earlier novels for children, Riordan combines hard-hitting action 
scenes, powerful magic, and comic relief with the internal waves of love, 
jealousy, and self-doubt that make his young heroes so very human. Lit by 
flashes of humor, this fantasy adventure is an engaging addition to the 
Kane Chronicles series.” 

— Booklist 




Praise for The Heroes of Olympus Book One: The 
Lost Hero by Rick Riordan: 



“Riordan's storytelling is as polished as ever, brimming with wit, action, 
and heart — his devotees won't be disappointed.” 

— Publishers Weekly 

"Percy Jackson fans can rest easy: this first book in Riordan's Heroes of 
Olympus spin-off series is a fast-paced adventure with enough familiar 
elements to immediately hook those eager to revisit his modern world of 
mythological mayhem. Rotating among his three protagonists, Riordan's 
storytelling is as polished as ever, brimming with wit, action, and heart — 
his devotees won't be disappointed.” 

— Publishers Weekly 

"With appealing new characters within a familiar framework, this spin-off 
will satisfy the demand for more.” 

— Booklist 

“Riordan excels at clever plot devices and at creating an urgent sense of 
cliff-hanging danger. His interjection of humor by incongruous 
juxtaposition... provides some welcome relief. The young heroes deal with 
issues familiar to teens today: Who am I? Can I live up to the expectations 
of others? Having read the first series is helpful but not essential, and the 
complex plot is made for sequels.” 

— School Library Journal 

“Riordan extends the franchise in a logical direction while maximizing the 
elements that made the first series so popular: irreverent heroes, plenty of 
tension-filled moments fighting monsters, and authentic classical 
mythology mixed in with modern life. Completely in control of pacing and 
tone, he balances a faultless comic banter against deeper notes that 
reveal the characters' vulnerabilities. With Percy Jackson slated to make 
an appearance in later volumes, fans nostalgic for the old books should 




find in this new series everything they've been pining for.” 
— Horn Book 




About the Author 



Rick Riordan is the author of the New York Times #1 bestselling The 
Heroes of Olympus, Book One: The Lost Hero; The Heroes of Olympus, 
Book Two: The Son of Neptune; the NewYork Times #1 best-selling The 
Kane Chronicles, Book One: The Red Pyramid ; The Kane Chronicles, 
Book Two: The Throne of Fire; as well as the five books in the NewYork 
Timesttt best-selling Percy Jackson and the Olympians series. His 
previous novels for adults include the hugely popular TresNavarre series, 
winner of the top three awards in the mystery genre. He lives in San 
Antonio, Texas, with his wife and two sons. To learn more about Rick, visit 
his Web site at www.rickriordan.com. 



